Confidentiality and Integrity:
A Constructive Perspective
Ueli Maurer, Andreas Rüedlinger, and Björn Tackmann
Department of Computer Science, ETH Zürich, Switzerland
{maurer,bjoernt}@inf.ethz.ch, andreas.rueedlinger@gmail.com

Abstract. Traditional security definitions in the context of secure communication specify properties of cryptographic schemes. For symmetric
encryption schemes, these properties are intended to capture the protection of the confidentiality or the integrity of the encrypted messages. A
vast variety of such definitions has emerged in the literature and, despite
the efforts of previous work, the relations and interplay of many of these
notions (which are a priori not composable) are unexplored. Also, the
exact guarantees implied by the properties are hard to understand.
In constructive cryptography, notions such as confidentiality and integrity appear as attributes of channels, i.e., the communication itself.
This makes the guarantees achieved by cryptographic schemes explicit,
and leads to security definitions that are composable.
In this work, we follow the approach of constructive cryptography, questioning the justification for the existing (game-based) security definitions.
In particular, we compare these definitions with related constructive notions and find that some are too weak, such as INT-PTXT, or artificially
strong, such as INT-CTXT. Others appear unsuitable for symmetric encryption, such as IND-CCA.
Keywords: confidentiality, integrity, constructive cryptography.

1

Introduction

Symmetric encryption protects the confidentiality of messages transmitted between two parties that share a secret key. Intuitively, this means that the encrypted message (the ciphertext) transmitted from the sender A to the receiver
B does not leak information about the contents of the message (other than,
for example, its length). In contrast, encryption generally does not protect integrity: If the ciphertext is modified during transmission, the message obtained
by decrypting might differ from the original message.
For some applications of encryption schemes, bare confidentiality is not sufficient. In his analysis of the Authenticate-then-Encrypt (AtE) transformation,
Krawczyk [18] constructs an encryption scheme that guarantees confidentiality,
but if one uses it to encrypt authenticated plaintexts, the combined scheme
does not guarantee both confidentiality and integrity. The vulnerabilities can
either be seen as a breach of confidentiality [18] or as a breach of integrity, see
Sect. 4.4. Natural candidates, such as the cipher block chaining mode (CBC)

or stream ciphers, are not vulnerable; they provide weak but sufficient integrity
guarantees [25].
In this paper, we use the approach of constructive cryptography [21, 22] for a
systematic treatment of security notions for symmetric encryption schemes. This
approach leads to security definitions that capture the exact conditions that the
schemes have to satisfy to achieve certain guarantees for the message transmission. In particular, these definitions are composable, which is instrumental for
the soundness of a modular protocol design. We then show how different types of
confidentiality and integrity are captured and compare these notions with several security definitions from the literature. This shows that some of the previous
definitions are either too weak or artificially strict (which is in general undesired
as it may lead to disregarding efficient schemes that are indeed sufficient).
1.1

Game-based Security Definitions

Most widely-used security definitions for cryptographic schemes in the context
of secure communication are game-based. The main concept of these definitions
is an interaction of two (hypothetical) entities: The challenger and the attacker.
During this interaction, the attacker issues certain “oracle queries” to the challenger; these queries model the use of the scheme in applications. The game also
specifies a goal for the attacker, which often corresponds to forging a message
or distinguishing encryptions of different messages. The infeasibility of achieving
this goal is supposed to capture the guarantees required from the scheme.
Unfortunately, the oracle queries and winning conditions of games encode the
use and guarantees only implicitly, and the exact guarantees are often hard to
understand. In particular, such security definitions are generally not composable,
and subtle details often have a significant impact on the resulting guarantees:
Examples where slight slackness in the oracle queries rendered the guarantees of
games too weak are discussed in Sect. 4.
1.2

Constructive Cryptography

The foundational idea of constructive cryptography [21, 22] is to specify both the
setup assumptions and the guarantees of protocols explicitly as resources, and
to consider a protocol as a transformation of such resources. Here, a resource is
a shared functionality accessed by several parties (similar to the ideal functionalities in frameworks such as [2, 8]). Real resources are assumed functionalities
needed for executing protocols (such as a network) and ideal resources describe
the guaranteed functionalities the parties want to achieve. The way a party accesses a resource is described by the interface provided by the resource to this
party; the resource provides one interface per party.
A converter systems formalizes the actions that a party performs locally, for
example when it uses a cryptographic scheme. A converter has two interfaces:
The inner interface is attached to an interface of the resource, and the outer
interface is used by the party instead of the original interface of the resource. In
particular, the composition of the resource and the converter is again a resource

with one interface for each party, which is depicted in Fig 1 for the case of
symmetric encryption.
A protocol is a tuple (in our context just a pair) of converters, there is one such
system for each (honest) party. The goal of a protocol is to construct a specified
ideal resource from available real resources, where the meaning of “construct”
is made precise in Sect. 2.3. The constructed ideal resources can again serve as
real resources for other protocols.
1.3

Secure Communication

The resources considered in this work are communication functionalities with
different types of security guarantees, and the goal of a cryptographic protocol
is to construct a functionality with stronger guarantees from one (or more) with
weaker guarantees. As the setting for communication security is described by
two (honest) entities that communicate in a potentially hostile environment, we
consider resources with three interfaces: One interface labeled A for the sender,1
one labeled B for the receiver, and a third one that is labeled E and captures
potential adversarial access. A resource of this type is called a channel (from A
to B), and its security properties are described by the capabilities provided at
the E-interface. The basic types of channels are (informally) described in the
following table, using the notation of [24].
−→ An insecure channel leaks the complete messages at the E-interface, and
allows at the E-interface to delete, change, or inject messages.
•−→ An authenticated channel leaks the complete messages. The E-interface
only allows to forward or to delete messages.
−→• A confidential channel only leaks the length of the messages, but allows
to delete, change, or inject messages.
•−→• A secure channel only leaks the length of the messages and only allows
to forward or to delete messages.
The intuitive interpretation of the symbol “•” is that the capabilities at
the marked (sender’s or receiver’s) side of the channel are provided exclusively
to that party. Consequently, if one side is not marked, the adversary might
also be able to send or receive messages. A shared secret key is a system •==•
that outputs the same random value at the A- and B-interfaces, and does not
interact at the adversarial interface. This system models the key that is required
by (symmetric) schemes; it could be generated in a key agreement protocol.
Security mechanisms such as encryption or MAC schemes are protocols that
transform one type of channel (and possibly a shared secret key) into a “more
secure” type of channel. In Fig. 1, the protocol (enc, dec) uses as resources a
channel −→ and a key •==•. The converter enc is attached with its inner interface
to the A-interfaces of −→ and •==• (dec is attached to the B-interfaces), and
the outer interfaces of enc and dec are the interfaces of the constructed (dashed)
system, which is again a channel. For more examples, we refer to [22, 25].
1

Bidirectional communication also involves the analogous setting with opposite roles.

A

enc

A

•==•

B

A

−→

B

dec

B

E

Fig. 1. Encryption protocol (enc, dec) applied to the channel −→ and the key •==•.

1.4

Related Work

The major part of research on (symmetric) encryption schemes has been pursued
in game-based security models. The nowadays “standard” confidentiality notions
IND-CPA and IND-CCA are derived from [14] and have been translated to the
setting of symmetric encryption schemes by [3]. Further variants of these notions
are introduced and compared in [16]. Several types of integrity guarantees have
been considered: Notions of non-malleability have been translated in [5] from
the respective public-key notions [12]. Further standard notions are INT-CTXT
and INT-PTXT (integrity of ciphertext and integrity of plaintext, respectively)
introduced and analyzed in [5], their relation is further examined in [28]. Also,
various types of unforgeability notions appear in the literature [13, 17, 18].
The security requirements for schemes used to protect communication over
insecure networks is often specified as a combination of properties for confidentiality and integrity, where the standard combination is IND-CPA and INTCTXT [5, 7, 17]; combinations with weaker types of integrity properties appear
in [5, 9, 13, 17, 27]. A single game-based notion for authenticated encryption appeared in [31, 34]. A different approach is taken in the definition of [9]: While
confidentiality is similar to IND-CPA, authenticity is simulation-based; equivalent fully game-based notions appear in [27]. Fully simulation-based definitions
of secure communication have been provided in [29] for Reactive Simulatability
and in [10] in the UC framework.
1.5

Outline

We analyze confidentiality and integrity notions for (symmetric) encryption
schemes using the paradigm of constructive cryptography. Sect. 2 introduces
the notation and the general model, and Sect. 3 shows how different types of
confidentiality and integrity guarantees are captured. In Sect. 4, we compare
various existing game-based security definitions to the notions in our model.

2

Preliminaries

We use the concept of abstract systems [22, 23] to formulate our results. At the
highest level of abstraction, a system is an object with interfaces via which it
interacts with its environment and with other systems. Every two systems can be

composed by connecting one interface of each system, and the composed object
is again a system. Also, every two different systems are mutually independent.
2.1

Notation

We consider two distinct types of systems, resources and converters, and we
describe topologies of these systems using the notation from [23]. Resources,
with three interfaces labeled by A, B, and E, are denoted either by special
symbols or by upper case boldface letters. Converters, with one inner and one
outer interface, are denoted either by small Greek letters or by special identifiers
such as enc or dec; the set of all converters is denoted as Σ.
The composition of a resource R and a converter φ is written as φI R, where
the label I ∈ {A, B, E} means that the inner interface of φ is attached to the
I-interface of the resource R. Note that the composed system is again a resource
that exposes the outer interface of φ as the I-interface together with the other
interfaces of R. A protocol is a pair of converters, one for each honest party, and
B
applying the protocol (φ1 , φ2 ) to the resource R is defined as φA
1 φ2 R—attaching
the converters to the A- and B-interfaces of the resource.
If two resources R and S are used in parallel, this is denoted as RkS and is
again a resource with the same set of interfaces; each of these interfaces A, B, or
E of RkS allows to access the corresponding interfaces of both sub-systems R
and S. The sequential composition of converters is denoted by ψ◦φ, and is defined
by (ψ ◦ φ)I R = ψ I (φI R) for all resources R. The parallel composition ψkφ of
converters is defined by (ψkφ)I (RkS) = (ψ I R)k(φI S) for all R and S. The term
id refers to the “identity converter” that forwards all inputs and outputs.
In general, for bit-strings x = x1 · · · xn ∈ {0, 1}n and l ≤ n, we denote by
x|l the sub-string x|l = x1 · · · xl . We extend the operation “⊕” to bit-strings by
defining, for x = x1 · · · xn and x0 = x01 · · · x0n , the ith bit of x ⊕ x0 to be xi ⊕ x0i .
2.2

Discrete Systems

In the analysis of protocols, we model all systems as (probabilistic) discrete
systems that communicate by passing messages, where the term “discrete” refers
to the value spaces of the messages as well as the time. The behavior of discrete
systems is formalized by random systems [20], i.e., conditional distributions of
the outputs of the system (as random variables) given all previous inputs and
outputs. Each input or output is associated to a specific interface.
Discrete systems are an instance of the abstract systems concept described
above. The composition of two discrete systems (such as connecting a resource
and a converter via interfaces) is a discrete system whose behavior is defined via
an interaction of the two sub-systems: A message that is input to the system
is processed by the sub-system corresponding to the (external) interface where
the message was input, and, if the sub-system provides output at the (internal)
connected interface, this value is processed by the other sub-system. Once one
of the two sub-systems outputs a message at an external interface, this becomes
the output of the composed system. The parallel composition of two resources is

defined asynchronously: Each input at an interface A, B, or E explicitly specifies
one of the sub-systems, and this sub-system is invoked with the input.
A distinguisher D is a system that connects to all interfaces A, B, and E
of a resource U and outputs (at a separate interface) a single bit, here called
W . The complete interaction of D and U defines a random experiment, and the
probability that the bit W is 1 is written as PDU (W = 1). The distinguishing
advantage of D for U and V measures how much the output of D differs when
it is connected to either U or V. Intuitively, if no (efficient) distinguisher differentiates between the two systems, they can be used interchangeably in any
environment (as otherwise the environment serves as a distinguisher).
Definition 1 (Distinguishing advantage). The distinguishing advantage of
a distinguisher D for the systems U and V is defined as
∆D (U, V) := PDU (W = 1) − PDV (W = 1) ,
where W is the special output of D. The advantage for a set D of distinguishers
is defined as ∆D (U, V) := supD∈D ∆D (U, V).
2.3

The Simulation-Based Security Definition

The paradigm of constructive cryptography is derived from [23] and follows the
ideal world/real world approach similar to [8, 29]: The “real world” describes
the protocol execution with two honest parties and an adversary, and is defined
by the composition of the two converters of the protocol (π1 , π2 ) with the real
resource R. In the “ideal world”, the ideal resource S specifying the security
goals is composed with a simulator σ connected to the E-interface. The purpose
of σ is to adapt the E-interface of S such that it resembles the corresponding
interface of π1A π2B R. (As the adversary can emulate the behavior of σ, using σ E S
instead of S can only restrict the adversary’s power, so using σ E S and hence
π1A π2B R instead of S is safe.)
To exclude trivial protocols, we require that if no adversary is present, the
protocol must implement the specified functionality. In the definition, we use
the special converter “⊥” that, when attached to a certain interface of a system,
blocks this interface for the distinguisher.
Definition 2 (Secure construction). The protocol π constructs S from the
resource R within ε and with respect to the set D of distinguishers if
∃ σ ∈ Σ : ∆D (π1A π2B R, σ E S) ≤ ε

and

∆D (π1A π2B ⊥E R, ⊥E S) ≤ ε.

An important property of Definition 2 is its composability. Intuitively, if a resource S is used in the construction of a larger system, then the composability
implies that S can be replaced by a construction π1A π2B R without affecting the
security of the composed system. Theorem 1, taken from [25], shows that security
and availability are preserved under sequential and parallel composition.

Theorem 1 (Composition for the 3-party setting). Let R, S, T, and U
be resources, and let π = (π1 , π2 ) and ψ = (ψ1 , ψ2 ) be protocols such that π
constructs S from the resource R within ε1 and ψ constructs T from S within
ε2 . If the considered class of distinguishers is closed under composition with
converters, that is D ◦ Σ ⊆ D, then (ψ1 ◦ π1 , ψ2 ◦ π2 ) constructs T from R within
ε1 + ε2 , (π1 kid, π2 kid) constructs SkU from RkU within ε1 and (idkπ1 , idkπ2 )
constructs UkS from UkR within ε1 .
In asymptotic statements, a system S implicitly refers to a family of systems
{Sk }k∈IN , and the distinguishing advantage is a real-valued function in the parameter k: For each k, one considers the distinguishing advantage where, for all
involved systems, one takes the element described by this k. Efficiency notions
for sets of systems and a negligibility notion for the distinguishing advantage
can be chosen such that they are closed under composition. Examples are the
sets of systems with a polynomial bound on the number of queries and/or the
run-time, together with the standard notion of negligibility.
2.4

Resources and Protocols as Discrete Systems

This section details the resources and protocols considered in the setting of secure
communication.
Channels. Let M be a discrete set, we usually consider M := {0, 1}∗ . A channel
with message space M is a resource that takes at the A-interface inputs from
the set M and provides at the B-interface outputs from M̄ := M ∪ {}, where
the element  is interpreted as indicating a transmission error. A single-use
channel allows for exactly one input at the A-interface and one output at the Binterface, a multiple-use channel allows for several (arbitrarily interleaved) such
interactions. The possible interactions at the E-interface describe the security
properties of the channel. For the insecure channel −→, every input m ∈ M
at the A-interface provokes the output m at the E-interface, and every input
m0 ∈ M at the E-interface leads to the output m0 at the B-interface. The
E-interfaces of the “more secure” types of channels are detailed in Sect. 3.
Keys. Let K be a discrete set, usually K := {0, 1}k for some k ∈ IN. A key with
key space K is a resource that draws a key κ ∈ K uniformly at random and
outputs it to both A and B. The E-interface does not provide any output.
Encryption Protocols. An encryption protocol with key space K, message space
M, and ciphertext space C is a pair (enc, dec) of converters. These converters
connect with their inner interfaces to a shared secret key with key space K and
to a channel with message space M0 ⊇ C. The resulting resource is a channel
with message space M.
As an example, we describe the one-time pad encryption for bit-strings with
length at most n. The key space in this setting is K = {0, 1}n , and the message
space of the assumed channel
S is (in general at least) the set of strings of length
at most n bits, M0 = C = l≤n {0, 1}l .

Example 1 (The one-time pad). The encryption converter otp-enc (generically
called enc in Fig. 1) obtains as input the n-bit key κ at the inner interface and
a message m with |m| ≤ n at the outer interface. The message transmitted via
the channel is c = m ⊕ κ||m| . The decryption converter otp-dec obtains the key
κ and the ciphertext c0 at its inner interface. It computes m0 = c0 ⊕ κ||c0 | and
outputs the message m0 at the outer interface.
Fig. 1 shows the setting in which the encryption and decryption converters
are attached to the resources, the channel −→ and the key •==•, with their inner
interfaces. Both the A-interface and the B-interface of the combined (dashed)
system are of the same type as for the original channel: The A-interface allows
to input messages from M = C, and the B-interface outputs messages from the
same set. Hence, the complete system is again a channel with message space M
(but differs at the E-interface).
The scheme extends to multiple, say t, messages as follows. Consider a key
with key space {0, 1}tn , and encrypt/decrypt the ith message with the bits (i −
1)n + 1 through (i − 1)n + |mi |.

2.5

Formalizing Games

In game-based definitions, we formalize both the adversary and the game (or
challenger) as systems, which are connected via their interfaces as described in
Sect. 2.2. The game allows the adversary to make certain “oracle queries” via this
interface. Whether or not the game is won is signaled by a special (monotone)
output bit of G (this can be considered as an additional interface) that is initially
0 but switches to 1 as soon as the winning condition is fulfilled. For a game G
and an adversary A, we define the game-winning probability after q steps as
ΓqA (G) := PAG (Wq = 1).
For an adversary that halts after (at most) q steps, we write Γ A (G) := ΓqA (G).
As winning the game with a certain probability might be trivial (such as when
the goal is to guess a secret bit), one usually considers the advantage of A,
that is, the (absolute) difference between A’s probability of winning G and the
probability for “trivial” strategies.
If a security property of a scheme is defined by the adversary’s inability to
win a game G, then we say that the scheme is ε-secure with respect to that
property and a class2 D of adversaries if the advantage for D in winning G is
bounded by ε.

3

Notions of Confidentiality and Integrity

The security of communication channels corresponds to restrictions on the capabilities provided at the E-interface, which can be characterized according to
two aspects: the amount of information leaked about transmitted messages, and
2

We will often use the same class D for both adversaries and distinguishers.

the potential influence on messages delivered to the receiver. Consequently, a
confidentiality guarantee bounds the amount of information that is leaked, and
an integrity guarantee restricts the adversarial influence on delivered messages.
3.1

Confidentiality

A channel is perfectly confidential if no information about the transmitted plaintext message is leaked at the E-interface. We also consider weaker types of
confidentiality where the “amount of leakage” is non-trivial but bounded; the
(remaining) guarantee is described by a function on the transmitted messages.
Definition 3 (Leakage specification). For some (discrete) set S, a leakage
specification is a family of functions L = {`i : Mi → S}i≥1 .
Functions `i on vectors of messages allow to capture, for example, channels that
leak whether the same message is sent twice (as in deterministic encryption).
L

Definition 4 (Confidential channels). For L = {`i : Mi → S}i≥1 , let •−→•
be the channel that, given inputs m1 , . . . , mi at the A-interface, outputs the value
`i (m1 , . . . , mi ) at the E-interface (and only allows forwarding or deleting messages). A channel C is L-confidential if there exists a simulator σ such that
L

∆D (⊥B C, ⊥B σ E (•−→•)) = 0,

and

L

∆D (⊥E C, ⊥E (•−→•)) = 0,

where D is the set of all distinguishers. If M ⊆ {0, 1}∗ and the leakage is restricted to `i : (m1 , . . . , mi ) 7→ |mi | for all i, the channel is simply called confidential.
The condition of being L-confidential is merely a restriction on the information
leaked at the E-interface; there is no guarantee on the potential influence of the
adversary on the delivered messages. In the security condition, this absence of
guarantees is expressed by attaching the converter ⊥ to the B-interface, which
hides all messages from the distinguisher.
The goal of an encryption protocol is to construct a confidential channel from
one that is not confidential. In particular, the one-time pad encryption achieves
confidentiality in this sense.
Example 2 (Confidentiality achieved by the one-time pad). The ciphertext
genS
erated by the one-time pad encryption for the message m ∈ M = l≤n {0, 1}l
is an |m|-bit string of independent and uniformly distributed random bits. The
information leaked to the adversary is exactly the length |m| of the message:
There is a simulator that, given the length |m|, generates a ciphertext that has
exactly the same distribution as the “real” ciphertext for the message m.
This means that the leakage is described by |·| : M → {1, . . . , n} (for multiple
messages, `i maps (m1 , . . . , mi ) to |mi |). The channel that is constructed by the
one-time pad from the insecure channel is described in Examples 3 and 4.


3.2

Integrity

Encryption schemes in general do not protect the integrity of messages: If the
adversary replaces the transmitted ciphertext c for a message m ∈ M by a
ciphertext c0 6= c, the receiver will potentially obtain a different message m0 ∈ M
during the decryption. For the adversary (oblivious of m), replacing c by c0
corresponds to selecting a transformation F : M → M that describes, for every
potentially transmitted message m̃, which message m̃0 = F (m̃) the receiver would
obtain, given that the original message was m̃.
Example 3 (XOR-Malleability of the one-time pad). For the one-time pad encryption, the adversary can replace the transmitted ciphertext c by an arbitrary
ciphertext c0 . Assume that c = m ⊕ κ and |c| = |c0 |, then this means that the receiver will compute m0 = c0 ⊕κ = c0 ⊕c⊕m. Hence, replacing c by c0 corresponds
to selecting the function m 7→ m ⊕ (c ⊕ c0 ).

In general, the distribution of each output at the B-interface depends on the previous inputs and outputs at all interfaces of the channel. But then, conditioned
on the complete interaction at the E-interface—the adversary’s knowledge—
the channel “transforms” all inputs at the A- and all previous outputs at the
B-interface into the next output at the B-interface; the interaction at the Einterface can be seen as a choice of a particular such plaintext transformation.
Definition 5 (Plaintext transformation). Let M be a discrete set. A plaintext transformation F on M is a (probabilistic) transformation M∗ ×M∗ → M̄.
The arguments of the plaintext transformation are the sequence of messages
transmitted by the sender, and the sequence of messages previously delivered to
the receiver; the result is the next message delivered to the receiver. The set of
all plaintext transformations available to the adversary formalizes the potential
adversarial influence on the delivered messages. Of course, the less such transformations are available to the adversary, the stronger are the integrity guarantees
of the channel. This is captured by the concept of integrity specifications.
Definition 6 (Integrity specification). An integrity specification is a family
F := {Fq }q∈IN of random variables with Fq ⊆ F̄, where F̄ is a set of plaintext
transformations.
The random variables Fq ⊆ F̄ formalize that, depending on the state of the
channel, only a subset of the transformations might actually be accessible: After
the qth query to the channel, the adversary may choose a transformation from the
set Fq (note that this choice corresponds to replacing the transmitted ciphertext
in the “real world”). The generality of this definition is indeed necessary to
describe the malleability of certain encryption schemes, such as CBC mode [25].
There, the availability of certain transformations depends on the randomness
used during the encryption, so Fq 6= F̄.

Example 4 (XOR-malleability). Let m, m0 , c, and c0 be as in Example 3. If we
set δ := c ⊕ c0 , the adversary’s choice to replace c by c0 = c ⊕ δ can be interpreted
as selecting the XOR-mask δ for the transmitted message. More generally, the
plaintext transformations FS
i,j,δj after i inputs at the A-interface and j inputs at
the E interfaces, with δj ∈ l≤n {0, 1}l , are described as follows:
– i < j : the output is a uniformly random |δj |-bit string,
– i ≥ j and |δj | ≤ |mj |: the output is mj ||δj | ⊕ δj ,
– i ≥ j and |δj | > |mj |: the output is mj ⊕ δj followed by |δj | − |mj | uniformly
random bits.
The transformations available
S after i inputs at the A- and j inputs at the B
interface are, for each δ ∈ l≤n {0, 1}n , the transformations Fi,j,δ .
The set Fq of transformations available after the qth query must be (implicitly
of explicitly) known to the adversary; abstractly, a description of the set Fq is
output to the adversary by the channel. Of course, for a confidential channel,
this description must not leak any information beyond the information specified
by the leakage. In the following definition, we refer to the number of queries at
the A- and E-interfaces by i and j, respectively, and use q := i + j.
Definition 7 (Malleable confidential channel). Let L be a leakage specification and F be an integrity specification such that the distribution of each Fq
depends (only) on the leakage `s (ms ) for 1 ≤ s ≤ i of the messages m1 , . . . , mi ,
the previous sets F1 , . . . , Fq−1 , and the selected transformations F1 , . . . , Fj . An
L,F

F-malleable L-confidential channel −→• (in the following only −→• if L and F
are clear) is an L-confidential channel with malleability described by F.
On receiving mi at the A-interface, −→• outputs `i (mi ) and a description
of Fq at the E-interface. Upon receiving a description of F ∈ Fq at the Einterface, −→• evaluates the transformation F on the plaintexts and outputs the
result at the B-interface. If the ⊥-converter is attached to the E-interface, −→•
immediately forwards each input mi from the A- to the B-interface.
As an example, we describe the XOR-malleable confidential channel and
sketch the proof that the one-time pad constructs this channel from an insecure
channel and a shared secret key.3
Example 5 (The XOR-malleable channel). The channel −⊕• behaves as follows.
Upon the ith input mi ∈ M at the A-interface, leak the length |mi | at the Einterface. Upon the jth input δj ∈ {0, 1}n at the E-interface (after i inputs at
the A-interface), output m0j := Fi,j,δ (m) at the B-interface.
We use the following simulator σ to prove that the one-time pad indeed constructs −⊕•:

– Upon a message li ∈ {1, . . . , n} at the inner interface (i.e., from −⊕•),
output a uniformly random li -bit string c̃i as the transmitted ciphertext at
the outer interface.

3

For simplicity, we only consider the case i > j. For the general case, cf. [25, Sect. 6.1].

– Upon a message c̃0j at the outer interface,
• if j > i, input δj = 0|mj | at −⊕•,
• if j ≤ i and |c̃0j | ≥ |c̃j |, input δj = c̃j ||c̃0j | ⊕ c̃0j at −⊕•,
0

• else, input δj = (c̃j ⊕ c̃0j )|0|c̃j |−|c̃j | at −⊕•.

The simulator σ is perfect, i.e., ∆D (otp-encA otp-decB (−→ k •==•), σ E (−⊕•)) =
0 for all distinguishers D:
– On input the ith message mi at the A-interface, in both cases a |mi |-bit
uniformly random string is output at the E-interface (generated either by
otp-enc using the key or by σ).
– On input the jth message c0j at the E-interface, the message output at the
B interface also has the same distribution in both cases (by construction of
σ; this is a simple check for each of the cases).

Consequently, the one-time pad constructs from the resources •==• and −→
the channel −⊕•. This channel is confidential according to Definition 4, the
simulator assumed in the definition is trivial (both •−→• and −⊕• leak exactly
the length of the message).

4

Relation to Game-Based Security Definitions

In game-based security definitions for encryption schemes, the attacker has access to oracles for encrypting plaintext messages and decrypting or checking the
correctness of ciphertexts, sometimes with additional constraints on the number
or order of queries. The attacker’s goal is either to generate a ciphertext that
satisfies a certain condition, or to distinguish two cases in which it is provided
with different sets of oracles. For many of these notions, it is not clear which
guarantees the proven schemes provide when the ciphertexts are transmitted
over a certain type of network.
In contrast, a constructive security statement makes these guarantees explicit: The confidentiality and integrity guarantees appear as the leakage functions and plaintext transformations of the constructed channel. In this section,
we analyze the semantics of game-based notions from the literature by proving
the (in)equivalence with corresponding constructive notions.
4.1

Goals and Attack Models

Security properties defined using games are often characterized by a goal and
an attack model. The goal is essentially specified by the winning condition (the
monotone output switches to 1), and the attack model is characterized by the
“oracle queries” the adversary has at its disposal.
The attack model roughly corresponds to adversarial access to the “real resources” used by the protocol in constructive security statements. The more
capabilities the game provides, the weaker the security modeled by the real resources, and the stronger the requirements for the protocol. Roughly, the idea

of a chosen plaintext attack corresponds to the real resource being an authenticated channel, and a chosen ciphertext attack corresponds to the real resource
being an insecure channel. The goal of a game corresponds to the attributes of
the constructed resource. For instance, the IND-type of games are often connected with confidentiality, whereas NM (non-malleability) and INT (integrity)
are integrity guarantees.
4.2

Indistinguishability of Ciphertexts

The standard security notions for confidentiality are IND-CPA and IND-CCA,
i.e., indistinguishability (of ciphertexts) under chosen-plaintext and chosen-ciphertext attack, respectively. Several variants appear in the literature; in all
variants, a bit b ∈ {0, 1} is chosen uniformly at random, and, depending on the
variant, the adversary has access to one of the following settings of oracles:
– multiple queries at a “real-or-random” oracle where, in each query, the adversary inputs a plaintext m0 , the game chooses m1 with |m0 | = |m1 | uniformly
at random, and returns an encryption of mb ;
– multiple queries at a “left-or-right” oracle where the adversary inputs two
messages m0 and m1 with |m0 | = |m1 | and obtains an encryption of mb ;
– multiple queries at an “encryption” oracle where, on input m, the adversary
obtains an encryption of m, as well as one “real-or-random” query;
– multiple “encryption” queries and one “left-or-right” query.
Finally, the adversary has to guess the bit b (with probability non-negligibly
different from 1/2). It turns out that, for any encryption scheme, the advantages
that can be achieved in the above games are related by a factor that is either a
constant or linear in the number of queries [3].
IND-CPA. The term IND-CPA usually refers to a game where the adversary
has access to the oracles described in one of the four settings above. While these
settings correspond to assuming that the ciphertexts are transmitted via authenticated channels (and cannot be changed during the transmission), in several
practical protocols such as SSL/TLS, the ciphertexts can actually be changed
during the transmission. Indeed, as confidentiality in the sense of Definition 4 is
defined by restricting only the adversarial interface (the output at the receiver’s
interface is ignored), one may hope that IND-CPA security will still imply this
weak form of confidentiality in this setting. The following example shows that
this is not the case.
Consider an encryption scheme where a certain ciphertext c̄ ∈ C is never used,
and append in the encryption to each ciphertexts a perfectly hiding commitment
on the plaintext. In particular, expand the secret key using a PRG, use the
first part as key for the encryption and the remainder as randomness in the
commitment. Also, modify the decryption to output the initial secret key if it
receives the special ciphertext c̄. As the decryption algorithm does not appear
in the IND-CPA game and the erroneous decryption does not hurt correctness

(as c̄ is never used), the modified scheme is IND-CPA secure. However, for any
confidential channel, it is easy to construct a distinguisher that differentiates
between the real and the ideal setting (input a message m ∈ M at A, input c̄ at
E, interpret the output at B as the secret key, expand by the PRG, and decrypt
the output at E. If this decrypts to m and the decommitment was correct then
say 0, otherwise say 1).
IND-CCA. In the IND-CCA game, the adversary is, in addition to one type of
oracles of the IND-CPA game, given access to a decryption oracle where it can
query ciphertexts that are different from those he obtained from the encryption
oracle.4 While IND-CCA is considered the standard notion for confidentiality in
settings where the adversary can modify ciphertexts, it differs considerably from
the notion implied by Definition 4. In particular:
1. IND-CCA is artificially strict: A scheme that allows “obvious” modifications
of ciphertexts (e.g., appending bits that are ignored) is considered insecure.
2. The definition of IND-CCA already implies strong integrity guarantees.
3. These integrity guarantees seem artificial for symmetric encryption.
These issues are explained further in the following paragraphs.
Replayable CCA. Several authors [1, 11, 18, 19, 33] have noticed that IND-CCA
is artificially strict in the sense that the decryption oracle will decrypt any ciphertext except for the exact challenge ciphertext. Schemes that allow for “obvious” ciphertext modifications are not IND-CCA secure, the typical separating
example being an (otherwise IND-CCA secure) encryption scheme where the
encryption always appends a single bit to the ciphertext, and this bit is ignored
during decryption. While this modification does not hurt the security guarantees
in any meaningful way, the resulting scheme is not IND-CCA secure.
In [11], several variants of “replayable” CCA security are analyzed.5 In these
games, not only the exact challenge ciphertext is disallowed in decryption queries,
but also “related” ciphertexts. Intuitively, this means that encryption schemes
may allow certain modifications to ciphertexts that do not change the result of
the decryption. In more detail, the notions considered in [11] are:
– IND-RCCA, or “replayable CCA”: any ciphertext that decrypts to one of
the plaintexts issued to the encryption oracle is disallowed;
– IND-sd-RCCA, or “secretly detectable RCCA”: intuitively, the receiver can
detect whether an adversarially generated ciphertext was generated as a
“modification” of an honestly generated one, or whether it is “independent”
of all honestly generated ones, these “modified” ciphertexts are disallowed;
– IND-pd-RCCA, or “publicly detectable RCCA”: the above distinction can
be done publicly, i.e., without knowledge of the secret key.
4

The reason for the latter restriction is that if the adversary were allowed to decrypt
the challenge, winning the game would become trivial.
5
Their original notions regard public-key schemes, but the extensions to symmetric
schemes are also described.

The exact formalization is technically involved; for details, we refer to [11].
With respect to achieving secure communication, the guarantees provided by
IND-CCA and IND-sd-RCCA secure schemes are indeed equivalent, which can
be formalized via bisimulation. Intuitively, the simulator for the IND-sd-RCCA
scheme can use the assumed detectability to decide whether a given ciphertext
should be considered a replay.
Strong Integrity. An IND-sd-RCCA secure encryption scheme achieves a strong
notion of integrity: The remaining malleability is described by the integrity specification Fnm with the set {fm̄ : M → M, m → m̄}m̄∈M of transformations,
where nm refers to “non-malleable.” The proof of the following theorem is deferred to the full version of this paper.
Theorem 2 (Informal). Let (enc, dec) be a symmetric encryption protocol. If
the protocol is ε-IND-sd-RCCA secure, then it constructs an Fnm -malleable confidential channel from an insecure channel and a secret key within ε.
Conversely, if the protocol constructs an Fnm -malleable confidential channel
from an insecure channel and a secret key within ε (for distinguishers that issue
at most q queries and with a special type of simulator) then it is (q 2 + 1)ε-INDsd-RCCA secure (with respect to the class of adversaries that issue at most q
queries). For large message spaces, the special type of simulator is general.6
Unnatural Malleability. IND-CCA is not a natural security requirement for symmetric encryption: The adversary may generate valid ciphertexts for arbitrary
plaintexts (but only independently of honestly sent messages). Realistic symmetric encryption schemes are either malleable (such as the one-time pad or CBC)
or, if they are non-malleable, they will actually already implement the fully secure channel (such as authenticated encryption). Here, it becomes apparent that
IND-CCA has evolved as a notion for public-key schemes, where the adversary
knows the encryption key and can encrypt arbitrary messages.
4.3

Specific Variants of Integrity

Games that are used to characterize integrity properties express impossibilities
(for the adversary) to generate ciphertexts that satisfy certain conditions. In
constructive cryptography, integrity guarantees are expressed explicitly by specifying the set of transformations that model the capabilities of the adversary.
The correspondence between these two paradigms is as follows: A scheme is secure according to a game if and only if it implements a channel that allows no
transformations that contradict the game; the potential probability in winning
the game translates into a distinguishing advantage in the constructive security
statement.
6

If the distinction between “modified” and “independent” ciphertexts can be performed without the key, then the condition on the size of the message space is not
needed. If we assume that the distinction is perfect, the factor q 2 + 1 reduces to 1.

NM-CCA. The notion of non-malleable encryption has been introduced in [12]
in the context on public-key schemes. Intuitively, no attacker (even given honestly generated ciphertexts) may be able to generate a ciphertext whose decryption relates to “honestly encrypted” messages in a meaningful way. NM-CCA
is equivalent to IND-CCA [12]; this extends to the RCCA notions [11]. Consequently, these notions also correspond to Fnm -malleable communication.
INT-CTXT. Integrity of ciphertexts has been introduced in [5, 6] and formalizes that the adversary cannot produce any fresh valid ciphertext. In more
detail, an encryption scheme is said to achieve INT-CTXT security if no adversary with access to an encryption oracle can generate a valid ciphertext that is
different from all ciphertexts obtained from the oracle. Here, “valid” means that
the decryption outputs a message (not an error symbol). Note that existential
unforgeability [17] and ciphertext unforgeability [18] are similar: The differences
are, for example, that the definition from [5, 6] allows multiple queries to the
challenge oracle, whereas [17] allows only one.
A symmetric encryption protocol that achieves confidentiality and is additionally INT-CTXT secure constructs a fully secure channel from an insecure
channel. Yet, INT-CTXT, as IND-CCA, is artificially strict concerning modifications of ciphertexts. We describe a relaxation of INT-CTXT which is constructed
analogously to IND-sd-RCCA. In particular, we also require the existence of a
secretly (i.e., given the secret key) computable relation, called ≡κ , on C with
the same properties as for IND-sd-RCCA; this relation formalizes the receiver’s
ability to distinguish “modified” and “independent” ciphertexts generated by
the adversary.
We define INT-sd-CTXT security by changing the INT-CTXT game as follows: The adversary wins only if dec(κ, c0 ) 6=  and ∀ r ≤ i : c0 6≡κ cr for all
honestly generated cr . Note that we also have to change the output of the oracle
in the case that c0j ≡κ cr holds (for some r) to be mr . The proof of the following
theorem is deferred to the full version of this paper.
Theorem 3 (Informal). Let (enc, dec) be a symmetric encryption protocol that
constructs a confidential channel from an insecure channel and a secret key
within ε1 . If the protocol is ε2 -INT-sd-CTXT secure, then it constructs a secure
channel from an insecure channel and a secret key within ε1 + ε2 . Conversely, if
the protocol constructs the secure channel within ε for distinguishers in Dq , then
it is (q 2 + 2)ε-INT-sd-CTXT secure with respect to Dq .7
INT-PTXT. Integrity of plaintexts has been defined in [5, 6] and is weaker
than INT-sd-CTXT. The adversary is also given access to an encryption oracle,
but to win the game, it has to fabricate a ciphertext that decrypts to a plaintext
that has not been queried at the encryption oracle before. This notion is weaker
than INT-sd-CTXT in the sense that the adversary may still be able to generate
7

The factor q 2 + 2 appears for the same technical reasons as for IND-sd-RCCA.

a ciphertext that decrypts to plaintext that was queried at the encryption oracle
but cannot be detected to be a modification of one particular honestly generated
ciphertext (even if all ciphertexts are delivered). This weakens the guarantees in
two aspects: First, the adversary can replay messages undetectably, and second,
the adversary may fabricate messages that decrypt to any one of the previous
messages with some probability that may even depend on the plaintexts. Consequently, if the adversary is able to determine which of the original plaintexts has
been received, he will potentially obtain information about some transmitted
plaintext.
An integrity specification is value-preserving if all transformations Fα :
M∗ × M∗ → M̄ have the property that the output message is either one of
the input messages or , but any one of these may appear with some probability (which may even depend on the plaintexts). The proof of the following
theorem is deferred to the full version of this paper.
Theorem 4. Let (enc, dec) be a symmetric encryption protocol that constructs
a confidential channel from an insecure channel and a secret key within ε1 . If the
protocol is ε2 -INT-PTXT secure, then it constructs an Fvp -malleable confidential
channel within ε1 +ε2 , with Fvp being value-preserving. Conversely, if the protocol
constructs an Fvp -malleable confidential channel within ε1 such that Fvp is valuepreserving, then it is ε1 -INT-PTXT secure.
Namprempre [27] introduces a related but stricter notion called SINT-PTXT,
which prohibits replaying messages arbitrarily. There, the adversary also wins the
game if it generates ciphertexts such that the decryption outputs any plaintext
more often than it was queried at the encryption before. Consequently, SINTPTXT corresponds to a channel with this bounded type of replay.
Fixing the definition from [5, 6]. In the original game, the output of the verification oracle is one bit indicating whether the decrypted plaintext is valid. This
renders the notion too weak: If (via a higher-level protocol), the adversary learns
which of the valid plaintexts has been obtained by decrypting (this probability
may depend on secret values), this is not captured. Hence, this notion cannot
guarantee composability. A slight modification to the game fixes this issue: The
verification oracle returns the decrypted message (instead of the single bit). The
following (artificial) encryption scheme exemplifies the weakness.
Example 6. Consider a scheme (enc, dec) secure according to the stricter notion.
Change the decryption such that for (n, c0 , c1 ) with decκ (cb ) 6= ⊥, b ∈ {0, 1},
the output is decκ (cκn ) (with κn the nth bit of κ).

The change does not affect the security with respect to the notion of [5, 6]: The
output of the oracle on (n, c0 , c1 ) can be easily computed from the output on c0
and c1 . In contrast, in the strengthened game, such queries reveal the secret key.
Plaintext Uncertainty. This notion from [13] attempts to capture that the
adversary cannot “control” the result of a forgery. While the description is rather

informal, it captures that the decrypted message contains a certain amount of entropy (for each message, the probability that this message is obtained by decrypting is small). While this is hard to achieve at least for multiple decryptions—the
only entropy in the (otherwise deterministic) decryption is “fresh” key material—
the computational (pseudo-entropy) version might prove useful in applications.
The corresponding integrity specification is the set of transformations that
have at least a certain min-entropy, meaning that for each input m and transformation F , the min-entropy of the random variable F (m) is larger than some
bound. Computational indistinguishability from such a channel means that the
output at the receiver’s interface has a certain pseudo-entropy.
Known-Plaintext Forgery. This notion from [13] is intended to capture that
the adversary providing a forged ciphertext can predict the changes to the transmitted message. The (informal) description in [13] states that the adversary
could have computed the outcome with overwhelming probability (this can be
formalized by means of an extractor). In the language of integrity specifications,
this means that all transformations in F are deterministic (and efficiently computable). Properties of this type can indeed be helpful, as can be seen in the
proof of the soundness of Authenticate-then-Encrypt in [25].
4.4

Combining Notions of Confidentiality and Integrity

Traditionally, security requirements for schemes for protecting communication
are expressed as a combination of separate properties for confidentiality and
integrity [5, 7, 9, 13, 17, 27]. Such a combination, however, does not necessarily
achieve the expected guarantees.
We revisit an example from [18] (modified in [25]): The composition of a
tailor-made encryption scheme with a strongly unforgeable MAC. Briefly, the
encryption first encodes each bit of the plaintext as two bits, such that the probability whether flipping one of these two bits has an effect depends on the original
value (i.e., 0 7→ 00, 01, or 10; 1 7→ 11), and encrypts this expanded string using a
one-time pad. Hence, if one encrypts an authenticated message, the probability
that flipping a ciphertext bit changes the contained message—and the MAC verification fails—with a probability that depends on the original plaintext value.
The resulting scheme achieves both confidentiality (by the one-time pad) and
integrity (in the sense of INT-PTXT, by the unforgeability of the MAC), but the
different success probabilities for the MAC verification leak information about
the message, which is often described as a breach of confidentiality [18].
The described scheme implements a confidential Fvp -malleable channel, where
Fvp is value-preserving as described in Sect. 4.3: The weakness of this scheme is
not a deficiency of confidentiality, but it only achieves a weak notion of integrity.
Note that, in terms of integrity, INT-PTXT is equivalent to WUF-CMA8 , which
is sufficient to construct an authenticated channel (where the adversary can only
8

Weak unforgeability: Given an oracle for generating tags, it is infeasible for the
adversary to generate a tag for a message that has not been queried at the oracle.

forward or delete messages) from an insecure channel. Indeed, for channels that
are not confidential, the integrity guarantees specified by Fvp are equivalent to
those of an authenticated channel: A simulator that knows the plaintext messages can sample according to distributions that depend on these messages. This
equivalence does not hold if the considered channels are confidential.
4.5

A Critique of Game-Based Security Notions

Starting from [14], the major part of research on the security of encryption
schemes has been pursued in game-based models. There, however, it is often not
immediately clear which assumptions and guarantees are encoded by the oracle
queries and winning conditions of games. For instance, which of the a priori different types of IND-CPA security described in Sect. 4.2 captures confidentiality
“best” (and why)? This lack of semantics abets the prevalence of security notions
that do not capture the security requirements exactly (see Sect. 4.2 and 4.3).
A further issue with game-based notions is that seemingly innocent changes
may have a significant impact on the security guarantees. The security notion
indistinguishability from random bits was introduced in [30] and is similar to
IND-CPA. Yet, instead of an encryption of a random message, the game returns
a uniformly random string of appropriate length. The way this length is chosen,
however, is crucial: In the original definition, this is determined by a function of
the length of the queried message. If this choice is changed (as done, for example,
in [15]) to the length of an encryption of the queried message, this allows to
leak information about the plaintext via the length of the ciphertext! A further
example is the weakness of the INT-PTXT notion described in Sect. 4.3.
Moreover, several attack models in the definitions described in the literature seem inappropriate for practical applications. One example is IND-CCA19 ,
where the receiver stops decrypting adversarially generated ciphertexts after the
first message has been sent honestly. Also, certain terms such as NM-CPA are actually misleading: An attack exploiting the malleability of an encryption scheme
is necessarily mounted by injecting or replacing ciphertexts. A more appropriate
correspondence for this type of notion is a CCA attack on a single-use channel.

5

Conclusion

We have defined and analyzed confidentiality and integrity notions for symmetric encryption schemes using the paradigm of constructive cryptography.
The resulting security definitions are composable and have clear semantics: The
guarantees of a cryptographic protocol appear explicitly in the description of the
constructed resource. We have shown how existing game-based notions can be
translated into guarantees in this setting, which makes their semantics explicit.
Additionally, this analysis has uncovered a weakness in the notion INT-PTXT,
and it has shown that INT-CTXT and IND-CCA are artificially strict.
9

In the CCA1 game, the adversary looses access to the decryption oracle after the
first call to the challenge oracle. This corresponds to the situation where the receiver
only decrypts messages until the first message has been generated by the sender.

Acknowledgments. We thank Kenny Paterson for fruitful discussions and
the anonymous reviewers for their very helpful comments and suggestions. The
work was supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF), project
no. 200020-132794.

References
1. An, J.H., Dodis, Y., Rabin, T.: On the security of joint signature and encryption. In: Knudsen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 83–107.
Springer-Verlag (2002)
2. Backes, M., Pfitzmann, B., Waidner, M.: The reactive simulatability (RSIM) framework for asynchronous systems. Information and Computation 205(12), 1685–1720
(December 2007)
3. Bellare, M., Desai, A., Jokipii, E., Rogaway, P.: A concrete security treatment of
symmetric encryption. In: Proceedings of the 38th Symposium on Foundations of
Computer Science. pp. 394–403. IEEE (1997)
4. Bellare, M., Desai, A., Pointcheval, D., Rogaway, P.: Relations among notions of
security for public-key encryption schemes. In: Krawczyk, H. (ed.) CRYPTO 1998.
LNCS, vol. 1462, pp. 26–45. Springer (1998)
5. Bellare, M., Namprempre, C.: Authenticated encryption: Relations among notions
and analysis of the generic composition paradigm. In: Okamoto, T. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2000. LNCS, vol. 1976, pp. 531–545. Springer-Verlag (2000)
6. Bellare, M., Namprempre, C.: Authenticated encryption: Relations among notions
and analysis of the generic composition paradigm. Journal of Cryptology 21(4),
469–491 (October 2008)
7. Bellare, M., Rogaway, P.: Encode-then-encipher encryption: How to exploit nonces
or redundancy in plaintexts for efficient cryptography. In: Okamoto, T. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2000. LNCS, vol. 1976, pp. 317–330. Springer-Verlag (2000)
8. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryptographic
protocols. In: Proceedings of the 42nd IEEE Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science. pp. 136–145. IEEE (2001)
9. Canetti, R., Krawczyk, H.: Analysis of key-exchange protocols and their use for
building secure channels. In: Pfitzmann, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2001. LNCS, vol.
2045, pp. 453–474. Springer-Verlag (2001)
10. Canetti, R., Krawczyk, H.: Universally composable notions of key exchange and
secure channels. In: Knudsen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 3027,
pp. 337–351. Springer-Verlag (2002)
11. Canetti, R., Krawczyk, H., Nielsen, J.B.: Relaxing chosen-ciphertext security. In:
Boneh, D. (ed.) CRYPTO 2003. LNCS, vol. 2729, pp. 565–582. Springer-Verlag
(2003)
12. Dolev, D., Dwork, C., Naor, M.: Non-malleable cryptography. SIAM Journal on
Computing 30(2), 391–437 (2000)
13. Gligor, V.D., Donescu, P., Katz, J.: On message integrity in symmetric encryption
(February 2002)
14. Goldwasser, S., Micali, S.: Probabilistic encryption. Journal of Computer and System Sciences 28(2), 270–299 (1984)
15. Iwata, T.: New blockcipher modes of operation with beyond the birthday bound
security. In: Robshaw, M. (ed.) FSE 2006. LNCS, vol. 4047, pp. 310–327. SpringerVerlag (2006)

16. Katz, J., Yung, M.: Complete characterization of security notions for probabilistic
private-key encryption. In: Proceedings of the thirty-second annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing. pp. 245–254. ACM (2000)
17. Katz, J., Yung, M.: Unforgeable encryption and chosen ciphertext secure modes of
operation. In: Schneier, B. (ed.) FSE 2000. LNCS, vol. 1978, pp. 284–299. SpringerVerlag (2000)
18. Krawczyk, H.: The order of encryption and authentication for protecting communications. In: Kilian, J. (ed.) CRYPTO 2001. LNCS, vol. 2139, pp. 310–331.
Springer-Verlag (2001)
19. Krohn, M.: On the definitions of cryptographic security: Chosen-ciphertext attack
revisited. Senior Thesis, Harvard University (1999)
20. Maurer, U.: Indistinguishability of random systems. In: Knudsen, L.R. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 110–132. Springer-Verlag (2002)
21. Maurer, U.: Constructive cryptography—A primer. In: Sion, R., Curtmola, R.,
Dietrich, S., Kiayias, A., Miret, J.M., Sako, K., Sebé, F. (eds.) FCDS 2010. LNCS,
vol. 6054, p. 1. Springer-Verlag (2010)
22. Maurer, U.: Constructive cryptography: A new paradigm for security definitions
and proofs. In: Mödersheim, S., Palamidessi, C. (eds.) TOSCA 2011. LNCS,
Springer-Verlag (2011)
23. Maurer, U., Renner, R.: Abstract cryptography. In: Innovations in Computer Science. Tsinghua University Press (2011)
24. Maurer, U., Schmid, P.: A calculus for security bootstrapping in distributed systems. Journal of Computer Security 4(1), 55–80 (1996)
25. Maurer, U., Tackmann, B.: On the soundness of Authenticate-then-Encrypt: Formalizing the malleability of symmetric encryption. In: ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security. ACM (2010)
26. Micali, S., Rogaway, P.: Secure computation. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) CRYPTO
91. LNCS, vol. 576, pp. 392–404. Springer-Verlag (1991)
27. Namprempre, C.: Secure channels based on authenticated encryption schemes: A
simple characterization. In: Zheng, Y. (ed.) ASIACRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2501,
pp. 111–118. Springer-Verlag (2002)
28. Paterson, K.G., Ristenpart, T., Shrimpton, T.: Tag size does matter: Attacks and
proofs for the TLS record protocol. In: Lee, D.H., Wang, X. (eds.) ASIACRYPT
2011. LNCS, vol. 7073, pp. 372–389. Springer-Verlag (2011)
29. Pfitzmann, B., Waidner, M.: A model for asynchronous reactive systems and its
application to secure message transmission. In: Proceedings of the 2001 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. pp. 184–200. IEEE (2001)
30. Rogaway, P., Bellare, M., Black, J.: OCB: A block-cipher mode of operation for
efficient symmetric encryption. ACM Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC) 6(3), 365–403 (2003)
31. Rogaway, P., Shrimpton, T.: A provable-security treatment of the key-wrap problem. In: Vaudenay, S. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2006. LNCS, vol. 4004, pp. 373–390.
Springer-Verlag (2006)
32. Rüedlinger, A.: Restricted Types of Malleability in Encryption Schemes. Master’s
thesis, ETH Zürich (2011)
33. Shoup, V.: A proposal for an ISO standard for public key encryption. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Report 2001/112 (2001)
34. Shrimpton, T.: A characterization of authenticated-encryption as a form of chosenciphertext security. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2004/272 (2004)

