 Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm
      for Security Definitions and Proofs

                                       Ueli Maurer

                            Department of Computer Science
                                     ETH Zurich
                             CH-8092 Zurich, Switzerland
                                 maurer@inf.ethz.ch


        Abstract. Constructive cryptography, an application of abstract cryp-
        tography proposed by Maurer and Renner, is a new paradigm for deﬁn-
        ing the security of cryptographic schemes such as symmetric encryption,
        message authentication codes, public-key encryption, key-agreement pro-
        tocols, and digital signature schemes, and for proving the security of
        protocols making use of such schemes. Such a cryptographic scheme can
        be seen (and deﬁned) as constructing a certain resource (e.g. a chan-
        nel or key) with certain security properties from another (weaker) such
        resource. For example, a secure encryption scheme constructs a secure
        channel from an authenticated channel and a secret key.
           The term “construct”, which is deﬁned by the use of a simulator, is
        composable in the sense that a protocol obtained by the composition of
        several secure constructive steps is itself secure. This is in contrast to
        both the traditional, game-based security deﬁnitions for cryptographic
        schemes and the attack-based security deﬁnitions used in formal-methods
        based security research, which are generally not composable.
           Constructive cryptography allows to take a new look at cryptography
        and the design of cryptographic protocols. One can give explicit mean-
        ing to various types of game-based security notions of conﬁdentiality,
        integrity, and malleability, one can design key agreement, secure commu-
        nication, certiﬁcation, and other protocols in a modular and composable
        manner, and one can separate the understanding of what cryptography
        achieves from the technical security deﬁnitions and proofs, which is useful
        for didactic purposes and protocol design.


1     Introduction and Motivation

1.1    Modularity in Constructive Disciplines

A central paradigm in any constructive discipline is the decomposition of a com-
plex system into simpler component systems or modules, which each may consist
of yet simpler modules, and so on. This paradigm is useful only if the compo-
sition of modules is well-deﬁned and preserves the relevant properties of the

    This paper is an extended abstract accompanying the author’s invited talk at
    TOSCA 2011. The author is supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation.

S. Mödersheim and C. Palamidessi (Eds.): TOSCA 2011, LNCS 6993, pp. 33–56, 2011.
 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2011
c
34      U. Maurer

modules. For example, in software design, the composition operation must pre-
serve correctness of the modules, i.e., correctness should be deﬁned in a way that
a system consisting of correct modules is itself correct.
   The goal of constructive cryptography is to see cryptography as a constructive
discipline, in a well-deﬁned sense. The design of a cryptographic protocol involves
several mechanisms (e.g. encryption, message authentication, etc.), each of which
is proven secure in isolation (as a module). The security of the composed protocol
then follows from a general composition theorem.
   However, this approach requires the security of cryptographic schemes to be
deﬁned in a suitable manner. Indeed, for the traditional, game-based crypto-
graphic security deﬁnitions, as explained below, the composition property is un-
clear. In contrast, security deﬁnitions stated in the proposed constructive manner
are intrinsically composable and capture what one really wants to say about a
concrete cryptographic system.

1.2   Traditional Security Definitions in Cryptography
In a traditional deﬁnition of security of a cryptographic scheme, one usually
deﬁnes a game that characterizes the capabilities of a (hypothetical) adversary.
A cryptographic scheme is deﬁned to be secure if no computationally feasible
strategy allows the adversary to win the game with non-negligible probability
(or advantage), for reasonable notions of feasible and negligible. The notion
of “feasible” is hard-wired into the deﬁnition and is deﬁned as some form of
polynomial time. Similarly, negligible is deﬁned in a speciﬁc manner such that,
roughly speaking, feasible times negligible is still negligible. Such deﬁnitions are
therefore necessarily asymptotic.
   For example, the security of a message authentication code (MAC) is deﬁned
as follows. Roughly speaking, without access to the secret key, no adversary re-
stricted to feasible computation can win the following game with non-negligible
probability. The adversary has access to a MAC-oracle (with the secret key em-
bedded) and can ask for the generation and/or veriﬁcation of MACs for arbitrary
messages. The game is won if the adversary can generate a fresh message (not
asked to the oracle before) as well as a correct MAC for it.
   While this deﬁnition sounds reasonable and strong and naturally captures
intuition, one may still ask why it should be the right deﬁnition. Indeed, for
many cryptographic primitives, several diﬀerent security deﬁnitions have been
proposed. For example, a strengthened version of the security of a MAC requires
that it even be infeasible to generate another valid MAC for the same message
(assuming the MAC scheme is probabilistic). It is generally not clear when such
a stronger deﬁnition is required.
   For encryption, the deﬁnitions include security against chosen-plaintext at-
tacks (CPA) or against chosen-ciphertext attacks (CCA), and for diﬀerent types
of distinguishing games. In addition, various integrity deﬁnitions for encryption
have been deﬁned. Several authors have investigated which combinations of such
notions are strong enough in a given context.
       Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions           35

1.3    Constructive Cryptography

The question of which deﬁnition is adequate should be answered relative to a
speciﬁcation of what is supposed to be achieved by the application of the scheme,
under speciﬁed assumptions. Hence the constructive approach proposed here.
   Constructive cryptography is a new paradigm in which the security deﬁnition
of cryptographic schemes is radically diﬀerent. For example, a MAC is deﬁned
to be secure if it constructs an authenticated communication channel from an
insecure communication channel and a secret key, for a well-deﬁned, simulation-
based notion of “construct” and for well-deﬁned deﬁnitions of an insecure and an
authenticated channel1 . Similarly, a symmetric encryption scheme is deﬁned to
be secure if it constructs a secure communication channel from an authenticated
communication channel and a secret key.
   The general composition theorem (Theorem 1) of this theory implies that the
combination of a secure MAC and a secure encryption scheme constructs a secure
channel from an insecure channel and two secret keys. By another composition
step, the two keys can be constructed from a single secret key using a pseudo-
random generator.
   The security of public-key cryptosystems, key agreement protocols, and dig-
ital signature schemes can be seen similarly in the constructive cryptography
paradigm, but this will not be discussed in this paper (but see [21]). The em-
phasis of this paper is on the general theory, less on the discussion of speciﬁc
cryptographic schemes, which are discussed in [22,20] and in future papers.

1.4    Outline of the Paper

In Section 2 we discuss the well-known one-time pad from a new perspective,
leading to the constructive cryptography viewpoint explained in Section 3. In
Section 4 we brieﬂy explain the idea of [18] to introduce abstraction layers
in cryptography. In particular, the theory of abstract systems is introduced.
In Section 5, the theory of constructive cryptography is explained. Related work
is discussed in Section 6, and several research directions that can be addressed
in the framework of constructive cryptography are mentioned in the concluding
Section 7.


2     Motivating Example: The One-Time Pad

In this section we discuss the one-time pad (OTP), the best-known prov-
ably secure cryptosystem, as a motivating example. We recall the traditional
(information-theoretic) security proof for OTP-encryption and explain two in-
trinsic problems with this proof. First, despite the proof, the OTP can be argued
1
    While using ideas of the frameworks of Canetti [4] (universal composability, called
    UC) and of Backes, Pﬁtzmann and Waidner [24,2] (reactive simulatability), which
    formalized the so-called “ideal-world real-world” paradigm, constructive cryptogra-
    phy is signiﬁcantly diﬀerent, as discussed in Section 6.
36      U. Maurer

                                 addition modulo 2


            plaintext                           ciphertext C1 , C2 , ...                plaintext
            M1 , M2 , ...                                                               M1 , M 2 , ...



                            key K1 , K2 , ...                       key K1 , K2 , ...


Fig. 1. The one-time pad (OTP) encryption scheme. The plaintext, the key and the
ciphertext are bit strings of equal length, say n bits. The key is a uniformly random bit-
string that is used only once. Encryption [decryption] consists of XORing (i.e., adding
bit-wise modulo 2) the key to the plaintext [ciphertext]. The adversary is assumed to
have access to the communication channel (i.e., to the ciphertext) but has no (a priori)
information about the key.


to be completely insecure, for two diﬀerent reasons. Second, the security proof
cannot be carried over to a more practical setting where the (long) secret key is
replaced by a pseudo-random key generated from a short secret key. Intuitively,
an information-theoretic security proof should carry over and become a proof
of computational security. The constructive approach to deﬁning security solves
both problems of standard security deﬁnitions.

2.1   The Traditional Security Proof for the One-Time Pad
The OTP encryption scheme (see Figure 1) can be proved to be information-
theoretically secure, i.e., unbreakable even for a computationally unbounded
adversary. How can one formulate and prove this claim?
   The usual way to argue about the security of OTP-encryption is to show
that the plaintext (also called the message) and the ciphertext are statistically
independent. This means that the ciphertext gives no information about the
plaintext, independent of the available computing power. In other words, if one
has to guess the plaintext when given the ciphertext, one can just as well ignore
the ciphertext.
Proposition 1. In one-time pad encryption, the plaintext and the ciphertext
are statistically independent (for any plaintext distribution).
Proof. Let M, C, and K denote random variables corresponding to the plain-
text, the ciphertext, and the key, respectively. Because the key K is uniformly
distributed, so is the ciphertext C for every choice M = m of the plaintext mes-
sage. In other words, PC|M=m is the uniform distribution for all m, and hence
so is PC . Thus
             PCM (c, m) = PC|M (c, m) · PM (m) = PC (c) · PM (m),
for all m and c, which is the deﬁnition of M and C being statistically
independent.                                                        
                                                                    
       Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions       37

In the following two subsections we discuss two reasons why this is not really
the statement about the OTP one should want to prove.

2.2    Two “Security Problems” of the One-Time Pad

Despite the above security proof, the OTP appears to be very “insecure”, at
least for two independent reasons.
   First, an adversary with access to the communication channel can modify
the message in a controlled manner, even though she gets no information about
the transmitted message. The adversary can XOR an arbitrary oﬀset δ to the
transmitted message, simply by XORing δ to the ciphertext. If OTP-encryption
were used in a banking application, an attacker could for instance change the
bank account number of a money transfer.
   Second, suppose that the OTP is used to encrypt one of the two messages
“Yes” and “No” encoded, say, in 8-bit ASCII. Since the two messages have
diﬀerent lengths, the ciphertext leaks complete information about the message,
in sharp contradiction to the above claim that the ciphertext is independent of
the plaintext message.
   What is a reasonable answer to the above two criticisms, apparently suggesting
that the security proof for the OTP is useless in practice? The right answer is
that we have to declare explicitly what we assume to be available and what
we claim to achieve. First, we need to assume that the channel over which the
ciphertext is transmitted is an authenticated (but not necessarily conﬁdential)
channel, preventing an adversary from modifying the ciphertext. Second, we need
to state explicitly that the resulting secure channel actually leaks the message
length (but not more). Then the constructive security proof can be interpreted as
stating that OTP-encryption securely constructs a secure length-leaking channel
from an authenticated channel and a shared secret key.

2.3    Computational Security: Additive Stream Ciphers

To illustrate the second short-coming of the above security statement (Proposi-
tion 1), we consider a variation of OTP-encryption used in practice, where the
truly random key is replaced by a keystream sequence that is generated deter-
ministically from a short secret key by a so-called pseudo-random generator.
This is called an additive stream cipher (see Figure 2).
   How should one deﬁne the security of such a stream cipher? Obviously, because
the entire keystream is generated from a short secret key, the system cannot be
information-theoretically secure. One could (theoretically) break the system by
trying all possible keys until the correct one is identiﬁed as the only key that
results in meaningful plaintext after decryption2 . Hence we must ﬁnd a way to
formulate what it means for this system to be computationally secure.
2
    This requires a suﬃcient amount of ciphertext and assumes that the plaintext
    is redundant, i.e., that one can distinguish between meaningful and meaningless
    messages.
38      U. Maurer


           plaintext                   ciphertext C1, C 2 , ...               plaintext
           M1 , M 2, ...                                                      M1 , M 2 , ...
                                keystream                           keystream
                                 X1 , X2 , ...                       X1 , X2 , ...

                           keystream                          keystream
                           generator                          generator

                                K                                    K
                             key                                  key

Fig. 2. Additive stream cipher. It is obtained from OTP-encryption by replacing the
random key by the output of a pseudo-random generator (also called keystream gen-
erator in this context) applied to the secret key K. This system can be used for many
consecutive messages if sender and receiver use consecutive portions of the keystream.


   Our goal is that the computational security of the additive stream cipher fol-
lows from the (information-theoretic) security proof of the OTP and the assump-
tion that the keystream generator is a cryptographically secure pseudo-random
generator. What we need are two things: a computational version of “securely
construct” and a composition theorem that allows to combine such statements.
Here the two statements are that a pseudo-random generator (computationally)
securely constructs a long secret key from a short secret key, and the previously
explained constructive statement for the OTP.

3     Explaining the Security of the One-Time Pad in
      Constructive Cryptography
3.1   The Basic Approach
In the constructive cryptography approach, a cryptographic mechanism (e.g.
the one-time pad) is interpreted as a method for constructing a certain ideal
resource from a certain real resource. This is in the spirit of [4,24,2]. One argues
that an adversary could, in an ideal world where the ideal resource is available,
achieve anything that he could achieve in the real world where the real resource
is given. This argument involves, as a thought experiment, a simulator system
which transforms the ideal resource into the real-world system consisting of the
real resource and the protocol engines (called converters).
   This paradigm will be explained at an abstract level in Section 5. In the
following we discuss the one-time pad example. What will be important to note
is that we consider two types of systems: resources and converters.

3.2   The One-Time Pad Example
We need to deﬁne the real resource and the ideal resource for the one-time pad
example. We refer to Figure 3.
       Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions              39




Fig. 3. The one-time pad (OTP) as an example of the constructive cryptography ap-
proach. The OTP constructs a secure channel SEC (the ideal resource) from an authen-
ticated channel AUT and a secret key KEY (the real resource). There exists a simulator
system sim which, when attached to interface E of the ideal resource SEC, makes it
equivalent to the real resource with the protocol engines otp-enc and otp-dec attached.
Equation (1) is an alternative (algebraic) way of describing the systems and stating
their equivalence.



   The ideal resource is a secure channel (see Figure 3, bottom), denoted as SEC
(or also as A •−
               −→•B in the so-called •-calculus; see [21,22]). A secure channel
SEC (for sending a single message from A to B) is a system with three interfaces,
for a sender A, a receiver B, and an adversary E. SEC takes an input (from some
message space) at interface A, outputs the message at interface B, and outputs
the length of the message (indicated by | · |) at interface E.
   Systems like SEC, AUT, otp-enc, and those discussed below can be made pre-
cise in any suitable language, but this is beyond the scope of this paper. As
mathematical objects, they are random systems (see [14] or [17]). One also has
to specify aspects like whether the adversary E has the capability of deleting a
message, and whether the channel allows to send only one or several consecutive
messages. For simplicity, the reader can think of our channels as allowing the
transmission of a single message, but the claims also hold for channels allowing
to send several messages.
   The real resource (see Figure 3, top) consists of an authenticated channel,
denoted as AUT (or also as A •−   −→ B, see [21,22]), and, in parallel, a shared
secret key, denoted as KEY (or also as A •===•B). This system can be written as
AUT||KEY3 . In contrast to a secure channel SEC, an authenticated channel AUT

3
    The parallel composition for resources, denoted || is neither commutative nor (nec-
    essarily) associative. It is postulated in an abstract sense in Section 4, and it must
40      U. Maurer

is one in which E can also learn the message sent by A but, like for a secure
channel, E cannot modify the message output to B.
   The protocol speciﬁes protocol engines (later called converter systems) for A
and B, namely otp-enc and otp-dec, respectively, which they attach to the system
AUT||KEY, resulting in a system we can write as

                         otp-decB otp-encA (KEY||AUT).

Here the superscripts (e.g. B in otp-decB ) speciﬁes that the converter otp-dec is
attached to interface B of the resource system AUT||KEY (see Section 4).
   How can we argue that OTP encryption constructs a (length-leaking) secure
channel? After all, in the real world (i.e., when OTP encryption is used) the
adversary receives something, namely the ciphertext, while she receives nothing
in the ideal world. How can we resolve this apparent problem?

3.3   The Simulator

Since the ciphertext is statistically independent of the message, we can argue
that the adversary is not better oﬀ when the ideal resource SEC is available
compared to when OTP encryption is used. If the ideal resource were used, he
could simulate the ciphertext (he would receive in the real world, see Figure 3,
top) by himself. More precisely, if a simulator sim generating a random ciphertext
(of appropriate length4 ) is attached to the adversary interface of the ideal system,
then the resulting system (see Figure 3, bottom) is equivalent (i.e., identical)
to the system in the real world (OTP encryption). Written as an equation of
systems, we have

               otp-decB otp-encA (KEY||AUT)         ≡    simE SEC.               (1)

(see the top and bottom systems in Figure 3). Here equivalent means that the
entire input-output behavior is exactly the same. In other words, both systems
(at the top and the bottom of Figure 3) behave identically. Each system takes
an input at interface A, outputs this message at interface B, and outputs a
random string of the same length at interface E. Equivalent behavior means that
the two systems behave identically if plugged into any possible environment or
application. This means that from the adversary’s viewpoint, the ideal world is
just as good as the real world because anything that could happen in the real
world could identically happen in the ideal world. We remark that this simulation
paradigm has a deeper justiﬁcation in the abstract cryptography framework [18],
where simulators are not part of a security deﬁnition but only part of the proof
of a security statement.
  be deﬁned concretely for a speciﬁc instantiation of the system concept. Here is is
  understood naturally as the asynchronous parallel composition.
4
  The length must be given as an input to the simulator, hence it must be “leaked”
  by the secure channel.
      Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions                41




Fig. 4. Explaining symmetric encryption in constructive cryptography. The only
change compared to the one-time pad example is that the two protocol systems (later
called converters) otp-enc and otp-dec are replaced by enc and dec which implement
the encryption algorithm E and decryption algorithm D, respectively. Equation (1) is
replaced by (2).


3.4   Computational Security
It is well-known that the one-time pad, and any other information-theoretically
secure encryption scheme, is impractical because, roughly speaking, the key must
be as long as the total message length to be sent5 . In practice one therefore
strives for security (only) against computationally bounded adversaries, which
is called computational security. Computational hardness is usually phrased in an
asymptotic sense, and the bound on the adversary’s computing power is usually
assumed to be polynomial in the security parameter6 .
    Figure 4 shows a setting where the OTP encryption scheme is replaced by a
computationally secure encryption scheme, for example a secure stream cipher as
shown in Figure 2. One can use the same simulator for the ideal system (generat-
ing a random ciphertext of appropriate length). However, the real resource with
encryption/decryption and the ideal resource with simulator are not identical
anymore. All we want to argue is that they are essentially similar (or, alterna-
tively stated, very close) for an adversary with bounded computing power. More
generally, we want to argue that they behave essentially identically in any real-
istic application context, where realistic means that only feasible computations
occur. Written as an equation of systems, the requirement can be stated as


5
  This is true if no additional source of information (e.g. a satellite with noisy channels
  to the parties) is available [13].
6
  However, as explained in [18], this is not essential; what is relevant is a composition
  property of the feasibility notion.
42      U. Maurer


                    decB encA (KEY||AUT)        ≈     simE SEC,                   (2)
where the notion of system being approximately equivalent needs to be deﬁned.

3.5   Distinguishers and Computational Indistinguishability

The notion of two systems S and T “being similar” or “behaving essentially
identically” in any context is captured by the concept of a distinguisher. A
distinguisher D for two systems of the same type is a system (or algorithm)
that can access (“play with”) a system of this type and outputs a bit. The
distinguisher’s advantage is the diﬀerence of probability of outputting 1 in the
two cases, where D is connected to S and where D is connected to T , respectively.
   Two systems S and T are ε-similar (or ε-close) if no distinguisher (in a certain
class of distinguishers) has a distinguishing advantage of more than ε. If we
consider the class of all feasible (e.g. polynomial time) distinguishers and ε is
very small (negligible), then this means that in any computationally eﬃcient
environment or application (which can be considered as the distinguisher) the
two systems behave essentially the same. The probability that a diﬀerence can
be observed is at most ε.
   This leads to a constructive security deﬁnition of an encryption scheme; it is
secure if it constructs, in the sense of computational indistinguishability (eq. (2)),
a secure channel from an authenticated channel and a secret key.

3.6   One-Time Pad Encryption over an Insecure Channel

While, as explained above, encryption is naturally used over an authenticated
channel, one may ask what happens when it is used over an insecure channel.
Indeed, some protocols (e.g. SSL) can be seen as ﬁrst transforming an insecure
channel into a conﬁdential channel (without or with limited authenticity) and
then using a MAC to transform the conﬁdential channel into a secure channel
(see Section 5.2). Such a conﬁdential channel is characterized by some form of
malleability (see [22]).
   Speciﬁcally, it is quite easy to see that if one uses OTP encryption over an
insecure (rather than authenticated) channel, then the resulting channel is an
XOR-malleable channel allowing the adversary E to XOR an arbitrary oﬀset δ
to the transmitted message. However, the message remains conﬁdential (except
for its length), and the adversary cannot modify the message in any other way.
For example, he can not swap the ﬁrst and the second half of the message
(even though it might seem that swapping the ciphertext halves might result in
swapping the plaintext halves).


4     An Abstract Theory of Systems

This section is based on abstract cryptography [18] and we refer to that paper
for more details.
      Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions         43

4.1   Abstraction in Cryptography

Before we explain constructive cryptography at a general abstract level, we ﬁrst
recall the discussion in [18] (also presented in [15]) of the role of abstraction in
cryptography.
   In every mathematical discipline one tries to identify the key concepts and
to formalize them in an abstract manner. Abstraction means to eliminate irrel-
evant details from consideration, thereby focusing only on the relevant aspects
of a problem or context. The purpose of abstraction is to provide, at the same
time, simpler deﬁnitions, higher generality of results, simpler proofs, improved
elegance, better didactic suitability, and, perhaps most importantly, new insights.
   In many contexts, the highest achievable level of abstraction, once identiﬁed,
appears natural and stable. For example, the natural mathematical concepts of
a relation, a function, a graph, a group, a ﬁeld, or a vector space capture ex-
actly, in a minimal manner, the relevant notions. In contrast, in cryptography
deﬁnitions, theorems, and proofs are generally highly technical and have sub-
stantial complexity due to the technical artifacts of the particular model (e.g.
deﬁning the computational model via Turing machines and communication via
tapes, using asymptotic deﬁnitions of systems and protocols, deﬁning eﬃciency
as polynomial-time, using a particular adversarial model, etc.).
   In view of this, it seems desirable to state cryptographic deﬁnitions in an ab-
stract manner and to leave the technical aspects to a lower level of abstraction.
This allows for simplicity (e.g. non-asymptotic deﬁnitions and proofs) and gener-
ality (e.g. simultaneous treatment of diﬀerent security notions, like information-
theoretic and computational).

4.2   Levels of Abstraction: Bottom-Up vs. Top-Down

The traditional approach in theoretical computer science, and more speciﬁcally
in complexity theory and cryptography, is bottom-up. One ﬁrst deﬁnes (at a
low level) a computational model (e.g. a Turing machine or a circuit), based on
which one deﬁnes the concept of an algorithm for the model and a communica-
tion model (e.g. based on tapes). One then deﬁnes a complexity notion for an
algorithm (e.g. the number of steps), and then a notion of eﬃciency (e.g. poly-
nomial in some parameter(s), in an asymptotic sense). Finally, based on all these
notions, one deﬁnes the security of a cryptosystem, typically as the infeasibility
for the adversary to win a speciﬁc game.
   The paradigm shift proposed in [18] is to use a top-down approach. In order to
state deﬁnitions and develop a theory, one starts from the other end, the highest
possible level of abstraction, and proceeds downwards, introducing in each new
lower level only the minimal necessary specializations of that level necessary for
expressing what one wants to capture.
   It is important to point out that theorems proved at a certain (high) level of
abstraction are completely precise (as they are mathematical theorems). This
is true without instantiations of the lower levels, which is exactly the point
of abstraction. The deﬁnitions and theorems are inherited by the lower levels,
44      U. Maurer

provided (of course) that the lower levels satisfy the postulated properties or
axioms of the higher levels. It is hence strictly more desirable to prove theorems
at higher levels of abstraction; nothing is lost by doing this7 .
   This paper deals only with high levels of abstraction. Modeling systems at a
concrete level (with potentially tedious details), except for the examples given,
is left to other papers (e.g. [22,20]).

4.3   Resources and Converters
At the highest level of abstraction, a system is an abstract object with interfaces
by which it interacts with its environment and with other systems. Interfaces
are labeled with elements of a label set. Two systems can be composed into a
single system by connecting one interface from each system.
   Speciﬁc types of systems, for example discrete systems as deﬁned in the ran-
dom system framework [14], are deﬁned at the next lower level of abstraction
(see [18]).
   In this paper we consider only two special types of systems: resource systems
and converter systems. In the statements we make about systems composed of
resources and converters, we also consider distinguishers as a third type of system.
   An I-resource system (or simply I-resource), usually denoted by capital let-
ters (e.g. R or S) or by a symbol like SEC in the examples discussed earlier,
is a system with interface label set I (e.g. I = {1, . . . , n} or I = {A, B, E}).
Typically (but not only) one can think of each interface being accessible to one
party. A converter system (or simply converter), usually denoted by a Greek
letter (e.g. α or π) or by a symbol like otp-enc, is a system with two interfaces,
where one interface is designated as the outside interface and the other as the
inside interface8 . The inside interface of a converter α can be connected to in-
terface i ∈ I of a resource system R; the outside interface of α serves as the
new interface i of the combined system, which is again a resource system and is
denoted αi R9 .

4.4   Cryptographic Algebras
We now formalize the notions introduced above.
Definition 1. A cryptographic algebra Φ, Σ for an interface set I consists of
a set Φ of I-resources with a parallel composition operation ||,10 a set Σ of
7
   For example, in algebra one proves theorems about groups, without having to men-
   tion examples of groups, and the point of doing so is that such a theorem applies to
   every group, i.e., every structure satisfying the group axioms.
 8
   One can think of such a system as a protocol engine converting or transforming an
   interface of a resource into an interface with a diﬀerent behavior.
 9
   A system composed of a resource and converters has a star-shaped topology, with a
   resource in the center and a (possibly empty) chain of converter systems attached to
   each interface. The resulting system is again a resource with the same interface set.
10
   For every i ∈ I, the i-interface of R||S can be thought of as consisting of the two
   i-interfaces of R and S merged into a single interface, by some addressing mechanism
   that is not (yet) of interest at this level of abstraction.
      Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions              45

converters, and a mapping Σ × Φ × I → Φ deﬁning the resource obtained when
converter α is attached to interface i of resource R, denoted as αi R, such that
(i) Converter application at diﬀerent interfaces commutes:

                                       αi β j R = β j αi R

     for all i = j, R ∈ Φ, and α, β ∈ Σ.
(ii) Attaching no converter is deﬁned as a special neutral converter 1 ∈ Σ satis-
     fying 1i R = R for all i ∈ I and R ∈ Φ.
The commutativity condition of the above deﬁnition is a special case of
composition-order independence [18], the statement that the order in which sys-
tems are composed does not matter11 .
  One can naturally deﬁne serial and parallel composition operations on the
converter set Σ as follows. Serial composition: αβ (or α ◦ β) is deﬁned by

                                     (αβ)i R := αi β i R

for all i and R. This composition operation is associative because function com-
position is: (αβ)γ = α(βγ). Note that 1α = α1 = α. Parallel composition: α||β
is deﬁned by
                           (α||β)i (R||S) := αi R || β i S
for all i and R, S ∈ Φ12 .
   We also consider a pseudo-metric13 on the space Φ of resources to measure the
similarity or dissimilarity of resources. As discussed in Section 4.5, the metric
is usually deﬁned as the best distinguishing advantage for a certain class of
distinguishers, but it is useful to consider an abstract pseudo-metric. Two special
and natural properties of a pseudo-metric are captured in the following deﬁnition.
They state that the pseudo-metric is non-expanding in the sense that d(R, S)
does not increase if one puts a resource T in parallel to R and S,14 or if one
connects a converter to the same interface of R and S.
Definition 2. A pseudo-metric d on Φ is compatible with the cryptographic
algebra Φ, Σ if
                   d(R||R , S||S  ) ≤ d(R, S) + d(R , S  )        (3)
for all R, R , S, S  ∈ Φ, and

                                  d(αi R, αi S) ≤ d(R, S)                            (4)

for all i ∈ I, R, S ∈ Φ and α ∈ Σ.
11
   This is what one has in mind when drawing a ﬁgure of a system composed of sub-
   systems connected by lines, as the drawing does not preserve information about the
   order in which the various parts were drawn.
12
   Note that (α||β)i T need not be explicitly deﬁned if T is not of a the form T = R||S.
13
   A pseudo-metric on a set S is a function d : S × S → R+ such that d(a, a) = 0,
   d(a, b) = d(b, a), and d(a, c) ≤ d(a, b) + d(b, c).
14
   Note that (3) is equivalent to d(R||T, S||T ) ≤ d(R, S) and d(T ||R, T ||S) ≤ d(R, S).
46     U. Maurer

4.5   Distinguisher-Based Pseudo-Metrics
A distinguisher D (for n-interface resources) can be deﬁned as a system with
n + 1 interfaces, where n interfaces connect to the interfaces of a resource R and
the other (outside) interface outputs a bit.
   The typical pseudo-metrics in cryptography are distinguisher-based metrics,
i.e., the distance between two resource systems is the best advantage a distin-
guisher in a certain class D of distinguishers can achieve:
                     d(R, S) = ΔD (R, S) := sup ΔD (R, S),
                                               D∈D

        D
where Δ (R, S) is the advantage of D in distinguishing R and S.
   The class D is, for example, either the set of all distinguishers (information-
theoretic security) or the set of all feasible distinguishers (computational secu-
rity). In the ﬁrst case, one can distinguish between perfect security (the distance
is 0) or statistical security (the distance is very small).
   A distinguisher D emulating (internally) a converter α ∈ Σ at interface i
induces a new distinguisher, denoted Dαi , deﬁned by
                               i
                          ΔDα (R, S) = ΔD (αi R, αi S).
Similarly, a distinguisher D emulating a resource T ∈ Φ in parallel induces a
new distinguisher, denoted D[·||T ], deﬁned by
                         ΔD[·||T ] (R, S) = ΔD (R||T, S||T ).
D[T ||·] is deﬁned analogously.
  An important property of a distinguisher class D is that it is closed under the
emulation of a converter, in the sense that DΣ i ⊆ D, where DΣ i = {Dαi |D ∈
D, α ∈ Σ}. In other words, a converter can be absorbed into a distinguisher
without extending the distinguisher class: For D ∈ D and α ∈ Σ, we also have
Dαi ∈ D.
  Similarly, D should also be closed under emulation of a resource, in the sense
that D[·||Φ] ⊆ D and D[Φ||·] ⊆ D, where for example D[Φ||·] = {D[T ||·] : D ∈
D, T ∈ Φ}.
Lemma 1. For a distinguisher class D for resources in Φ, the pseudo-metric
ΔD is compatible with the cryptographic algebra Φ, Σ if
                DΣ i ⊆ D,      D[·||Φ] ⊆ D,     and     D[Φ||·] ⊆ D.
Proof. Since Dαi ⊆ DΣ i ⊆ D we have
                                           i
                   ΔD (αi R, αi S) = ΔDα (R, S) ≤ ΔD (R, S),
which is (4). Similarly, since D[·||T ] ⊆ D[·||Φ] ⊆ D we have
                   ΔD (R||T, S||T ) = ΔD[·||T ](R, S) ≤ ΔD (R, S).
As mentioned, this inequality together with the dual inequality ΔD (T ||R, T ||S) ≤
ΔD (R, S) implies (3).                                                            
                                                                                  
      Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions        47

If one considers the class of feasible distinguishers and converters, then one
needs a feasibility notion for which the conditions of Lemma 1 are satisﬁed.
Since one can repeatedly absorb converters into the class, the class needs to be
deﬁned asymptotically. For example, polynomial-time notions of feasibility, if
properly deﬁned, have this composition property. In fact, this can, in retrospect,
be seen as a reason for working with polynomial-time notions in cryptography
and complexity theory. However, as we have illustrated (see also [18]), an abstract
treatment is possible, is simpler, and implies the corresponding statements for
any composable feasibility notion, not just (a speciﬁc form of) polynomial-time.
   In such an asymptotic deﬁnition of feasibility, the systems are actually asymp-
totic families of systems (indexed by some parameter) and the distance is a func-
tion of the parameter rather then a number. This view is compatible with the
abstract view presented above. One can deﬁne a negligibility notion, which is a
subset of the functions N → R+ , containing the constant 0-function, and closed
under multiplication with a feasible function. We do not expand further on these
lower-level issues and refer to [18].


5     Constructive Cryptography for the Alice-Bob-Eve
      Setting
A standard cryptographic setup consists of two honest parties, Alice and Bob,
connected by a certain communication resource (e.g., an insecure channel) that
may be partially controlled by an adversary, Eve. This setup corresponds to
a special case of abstract cryptography [18], where the interface set is I =
{A, B, E}, where A and B are assumed to be honest and E is assumed to be
the adversary, and where one considers single resources rather than resource sets
(called speciﬁcation in [18]). The term constructive cryptography [16] here refers
to the application of abstract cryptography to deﬁning classical cryptographic
primitives in a constructive way. We refer also to [22,19].

5.1   Defining “Secure Construction”

In the following, we consider resources with interface set I = {A, B, E}, where E
is the adversary interface. We will deﬁne what it means to “securely construct”
a resource S from a resource R using converters π1 for A and π2 for B. Recall
the discussion in Section 3.
   Since the party E is only introduced as a thought experiment to deﬁne secu-
rity, it can not be assumed to be present. A resource can be modeled as having
two modes, one mode when E is not present and one mode when E is present
and makes potential use of its assumed power. There are several ways to model
such a two-mode resource. A natural one is to assume a special converter ⊥
which, when attached to the E-interface, puts the resource into the “no adver-
sary” mode. In other words, the two modes of a resource R are ⊥E R and R
(where, in the latter, E has direct access to R).
48      U. Maurer

   Concretely, the converter ⊥ can for example be thought of as shielding the
interface to the outside (i.e., to a distinguisher) and setting some kind of ﬂag
at its inside interface which tells the resource to behave in a certain restricted
mode (corresponding to E not being present). A resource could for example be
(but does not have to be) modeled as taking as an initial input a “cheating bit”
c at interface E. If the bit is set to c = 1, then the interface provides additional
functionality (like allowing E to read and/or modify a message) compared to the
case c = 0, which corresponds to E not being present. This can be interpreted
as follows: An adversary E sets the bit to 1 in order to acquire additional power.
In this view, ⊥ is a converter which sets c = 0 (at the inside interface) and
shields the outside interface. For example, an insecure channel can be modeled
by specifying that if c = 0, then the message(s) input by A are delivered to B,
whereas if c = 1, then E receives a message sent by A and can replace it by
an arbitrary message, which is delivered to B. Similarly, a secure channel with
deletion feature can be modeled by specifying that if c = 0, then the message(s)
input by A are delivered to B, whereas if c = 1, then E learns the message
length and can input a bit indicating whether the message should be delivered
to B or deleted.
   The two modes must be considered separately, resulting in two conditions
which can be called availability (E not present) and security (E present).

Definition 3. Consider a cryptographic algebra Φ, Σ for interface set I =
{A, B, E} and a pseudo-metric d on Φ. For resources R and S we say that
protocol (π1 , π2 ) for π1 , π2 ∈ Σ (securely) constructs S from R, within ε, denoted

                                        (π1 ,π2 ,ε)
                                    R     −→          S,

if the following two conditions (availability and security) are satisﬁed:

 1.   d(π1A π2B ⊥ER, ⊥ES) ≤ ε
 2.   ∃σ ∈ Σ :    d(π1A π2B R, σ E S) ≤ ε.

In the one-time pad example (Section 3), only the second condition (security) was
discussed. The ﬁrst condition (availability) was not mentioned, but of course it
is necessary, and indeed satisﬁed for encryption (in particular the one-time pad)
as explained in Section 3. Otherwise a secure channel (with deletion feature for
E) could be constructed from a communication channel that never delivers a
message to B, which obviously would not make sense. Here we do not discuss
the ﬁrst condition further.

5.2   Composability

A notion of “construction” must be composable to be useful. For example, if
a certain scheme constructs a secret key from an authenticated communication
channel (e.g. a key agreement protocol like a variant of the Diﬃe-Hellman pro-
tocol [9]), then composing such key generation with encryption (and another
        Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions                                                    49

authenticated channel) should construct a secure channel. Similarly, since a se-
cure MAC constructs an authenticated channel from a secret key and an insecure
channel, and encryption constructs a secure channel from an authenticated chan-
nel and (another) secret key, the combination of MAC and encryption should con-
struct a secure channel from an insecure channel and two secret keys (see [22]).
This corresponds to the well-known encrypt-then-MAC paradigm. Note that the
order (encrypt-then-MAC) in which converters are applied to the message is re-
versed compared to the order in which transformations are applied. We refer
to [22] for a discussion of this and of the dual MAC-then-encrypt paradigm.
   The above are two examples of serial composability. We also need parallel
composability, as described in the following theorem. Composability was deﬁned
abstractly in [18], and here we consider a special case.
                                                              (π1 ,π2 ,ε)
Theorem 1. The construction notion R −→ S as defined in Definition 3 is
generally composable if the pseudo-metric d is compatible with the cryptographic
algebra, i.e., we have:
            (π1 ,π2 ,ε)               (π1 ,π2 ,ε )                       (π1 π1 ,π2 π2 ,ε+ε )
 (i)    R     −→          S ∧ S             −→          T    =⇒         R           −→                T;
                                                                                                  
            (π1 ,π2 ,ε)               (π1 ,π2 ,ε )                             (π1 ||π1 ,π2 ||π2 ,ε+ε )
(ii)    R     −→          S ∧ R             −→          S   =⇒         R||R               −→                S||S  ;
            (1,1,0)
(iii)   R −→ R.
Conditions 2 and 3 together imply
                              (π1 ,π2 ,ε)                           (π1 ||1,π2 ||1,ε)
                          R     −→          S      =⇒        R||T        −→             S||T,
which can be interpreted as context-insensitivity in the sense that resources
(e.g. T ) available in parallel (a context) does not invalidate a construction state-
ment. (The analogous statement with T on the left side also holds.) Note that,
for example, if Φ and Σ are the sets of feasibly implementable resources and con-
verters, respectively, then the context-insensitivity does not hold with respect
to, say, a factoring oracle T (if factoring is computationally hard). But such a T
would not be in Φ.
Proof. The theorem makes six statements that can be proved independently:
For each of (i) to (iii) we have to prove conditions 1 and 2 of Deﬁnition 3. Here
we only prove one of these statements.
                                                                                (π1 ,π2 ,ε)                 (π1 ,π2 ,ε )
   To prove condition 2 claimed by (i), assume that R                              −→         S and S           −→            T
are satisﬁed. By deﬁnition, this implies that
                                             d(π1A π2B R, σ E S) ≤ ε
for some σ ∈ Σ, as well as
                                            d(π1A π2B S, σ E T ) ≤ ε
for some σ  ∈ Σ. We need to prove that there exists a simulator σ̂ such that
                              d((π1 π1 )A (π2 π2 )B R, σ̂ E T ) ≤ ε + ε .                                             (5)
50        U. Maurer

We prove that this holds for σ̂ = σσ  . Commutativity of converter application
at diﬀerent interfaces implies

              (π1 π1 )A (π2 π2 )B R = π1A π1A π2B π2B R = π1A π2B π1A π2B R.

Using (4), namely the compatibility of d, we obtain

        d((π1 π1 )A (π2 π2 )B R, π1A π2B σ E S) = d(π1A π2B π1A π2B R, π1A π2B σ E S)
                                                   ≤ d(π1A π2B R, σ E S)
                                                   ≤ ε.

Using (4) we also obtain

                d(σ E π1A π2B S, σ E σ E T ) ≤ d(π1A π2B S, σ E T ) ≤ ε .

Using σ E π1A π2B S = π1A π2B σ E S (commutativity) and σ̂ = σσ  ,15 we thus have

                                 d(π1A π2B σ E S, σ̂ E T ) ≤ ε .

The triangle inequality now yields (5):

          d((π1 π1 )A (π2 π2 )B R, σ̂ E T )
            ≤ d((π1 π1 )A (π2 π2 )B R, π1A π2B σ E S) + d(π1A π2B σ E S, σ̂ E T )
             ≤ ε + ε .                                                                         
                                                                                                

We note that this proof of composition holds in complete generality, indepen-
dently of how one deﬁnes technical aspects at lower layers. It would, for example,
even hold for systems connected via an analog communication mechanism, and
it holds for any composable notion of feasibility and any model of computation.


6      History and Related Work
The idea that cryptographic schemes can be described as transformations of
channel security properties, in a constructive sense, was ﬁrst proposed in the
author’s lecture notes in the early 90’s and was published in [21]. This approach
to explaining cryptography, and protocols combining the use of several cryp-
tographic schemes, as channel transformations, also making trust assumptions
explicit, has been called the •-calculus (see for example [21,22,23]). Constructive
cryptography as discussed here can be seen as deﬁning the semantics of trans-
formations in the •-calculus, which was originally used with only an intuitive
semantics, mainly for didactic purposes. We do not elaborate further on the
•-calculus.
   The so-called “ideal-world real-world” paradigm in cryptography emerged in
the context of secure multi-party computation which was (and is) understood
15
     Note that the order of composing protocols and simulators is diﬀerent. The reason
     can be seen by drawing a ﬁgure.
      Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions        51

as the emulation of an (ideal) trusted party that computes a certain function or
speciﬁcation, in a real world where only communication channels are available to
the parties. It was introduced formally in the frameworks of Canetti [4] (universal
composability, called UC) and of Backes, Pﬁtzmann and Waidner [24,2] (reactive
simulatability), based on the simulation paradigm.
   In these frameworks, the basic idea is to consider an ideal system (often called
a functionality) capturing the goal one wants to securely realize, when given a
complete asynchronous network and possibly a set-up, using a protocol specifying
what the honest parties have to do. The deﬁnition of what it means to “securely
realize” involves an adversary who can corrupt certain parties, and captures
the idea that whatever the adversary can achieve in the real world he could also
achieve in the ideal world. This is made precise by means of a so-called simulator,
an ingenious concept introduced by Goldwasser, Micali, and Rackoﬀ [10] to deﬁne
zero-knowledge protocols.
   The frameworks [4,24,2] are technically quite speciﬁc and have several draw-
backs and limitations explained in the abstract cryptography framework [18].
This framework gives a new, direct semantics to the “ideal-world real-world”
paradigm based on the concept of a resource isomorphism. In this theory, simu-
lators are only a proof technique, not part of the (security) deﬁnition. Actually,
in this framework there is not necessarily a central adversary, and simulators are
local (as opposed to monolithic).
   Constructive cryptography was developed in parallel with abstract cryptog-
raphy [18], which is joint work with Renato Renner, from which we borrow
substantially, including the use of the abstract theory of systems. Construc-
tive cryptography can be seen both as a fragment and as an application of
abstract cryptography. Basic ideas of constructive cryptography were also de-
scribed in [19].
   In view of the “ideal-world real-world” paradigm, constructive cryptography
appears natural. Nevertheless, previous works on the security of cryptographic
schemes work with game-based deﬁnitions. We refer to [20] for a discussion of
the game-based approach in view of constructive cryptography. Some papers
have deﬁned ideal functionalities for certain secure communication primitives.
Shoup [25] investigated functionalities for secure key exchange. Bellare et al. [3]
propose a modular approach to designing authentication and key exchange proto-
cols, but their approach mixes the game-based and the “ideal-world real-world”
approach. This is also true for [6]. Canetti and Krawczyk [7] propose ideal func-
tionalities in the UC-framework for key exchange and secure channels, but their
approach is quite technical and involves apparently unnecessary artifacts (e.g.
a so-called non-information oracle). These works, and many more, can now be
reexamined in the spirit of constructive cryptography.
   Many works that deﬁne ideal functionalities to explain traditional cryptog-
raphy actually deﬁne functionalities for the cryptographic schemes rather than
the channels or keys. For example, Canetti [5] deﬁnes an ideal functionality for a
digital signature scheme. In constructive cryptography, this appears surprising,
as a digital signature scheme corresponds to a pair of converters, not a resource.
52      U. Maurer

This illustrates that constructive cryptography, while using ideas of previous
frameworks, is intrinsically diﬀerent, in addition to being phrased at a more
abstract and general level.
   There exists a vast literature on applying formal methods to the design and
the analysis of security protocols, and some of them deal with the composition
of protocols (e.g., see [8,11,12,23,26] and the references therein). It is beyond
the scope of this extended abstract to give a detailed comparison between these
approaches and our approach, but we mention a few intrinsic diﬀerences.
   The most important diﬀerence between works in the formal-methods commu-
nity and the cryptography community is in the kind of (mathematical) statement
one makes, not in the manner how these statements and the proofs are formal-
ized. We explain three major aspects in which the statements made in the two
approaches diﬀer.
   First, security is often deﬁned as the absence of a certain class of attacks,
i.e., the inexistence of a trace in the class of considered attack traces. A ma-
jor question is whether the class of attack traces captures all relevant attacks.
More precisely, the question is what the absence of attack traces of a certain
type really means. For example, it should allow one to conclude the security
of a protocol that makes use of the given protocol as a subprotocol. We refer
to [11] for a discussion of work on protocol composition. In contrast, security in
constructive cryptography is deﬁned by the speciﬁcation of the ideal resource,
which characterizes completely what a certain entity (e.g. the adversary E) can
do. The notion of attack does not exist in this view, as everything relevant is said
by the resource speciﬁcation. As a consequence, in constructive cryptography,
composition follows by a general composition theorem, that is, by design of the
kind of statement one makes.
   Second, most works applying formal methods make use of a speciﬁc idealized
model of cryptography, typically the Dolev-Yao model, which abstracts away
many relevant aspects. For example, it does not capture that the message length
could leak. We refer to [1] for a more detailed discussion of what statements
derived for the Dolev-Yao model can actually mean.
   Third, realistic statements in cryptography are generally of a probability-
theoretic nature, for example stating a bound on the probability that the ad-
versary can break a system or on the advantage in distinguishing two systems.
Most works on formal methods do not consider probabilities.
   Work based on formal methods comes with the promise of being completely
rigorous. Of course, the precision of security statements is important, no matter
what kind of statement one makes, and formal methods of various types can
provide tools to achieve precision and proof automation. But rigor and precision
does not require a statement to be made in a particular formal language. We
point out that in this paper, only the statements of Sections 4 and 5 are rigorous,
while Sections 2 and 3 are intentionally stated in a less formal language. However,
discrete systems and their composition can be formalized in the language of
random systems [14] (see also [17]). An interesting open question is how formal
methods can be applied to derive statements in constructive cryptography.
        Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions           53

   On the other hand, since in our approach protocols can be decomposed into
elementary steps that are quite easy to prove, the security proof of a complex
protocol can actually be simple enough that it may not be necessary to apply
formal methods to capture a statement and its proof. We believe that preci-
sion and simplicity are not contradictory and that one should always strive for
simplicity, without sacriﬁcing rigor.


7      Conclusions and Future Work

Based on [18], we have considered the common cryptographic setting with two
honest parties Alice and Bob and an adversary Eve. We have proposed to model
cryptography in this setting as a constructive discipline in which resources (e.g.
channels) are constructed from resources (e.g. channels and keys), by a crypto-
graphic scheme that corresponds to a pair of converters (constituting the protocol
engines) for Alice and Bob.
   While the constructive approach could in principle also be phrased in an ex-
isting framework such as the UC-framework [4],16 we present our theory at an
abstract level where only the relevant aspects need to be considered, result-
ing in simplicity and minimality of the arguments. For example, a feasibility
notion must, abstractly speaking, only be such that the feasible distinguisher
class is closed under emulation of feasible resources and converters. It is pos-
sible, but not necessary, to deﬁne feasibility as some form of polynomial-time.
Asymptotics, Turing machines, and other artifacts that are an integral part of
any conventional security deﬁnition in cryptography, are not necessary at this
abstract level, without loss of precision.
   Our approach illustrates the importance of distinguishing between two system
types, converters and resources. Cryptographic schemes correspond to convert-
ers, not resources. For example, in our view, secrecy is an attribute of a channel,
not necessarily a property of an encryption scheme. The (often considered) se-
curity goal of achieving secrecy and authenticity means to construct a resource
(channel) with these two attributes, not to design an encryption scheme that
has two properties which can be called secrecy and integrity. This construction
can be divided into two composable steps (see [22]), in two alternative ways:
authenticate-then-encrypt and encrypt-the-authenticate.
   Constructive cryptography makes precise the intuitive high-level understand-
ing of what cryptography and cryptographic protocols achieve (e.g. construct-
ing a secure channel), separating it from rather involved mathematical security
deﬁnitions and proofs. One can understand cryptography without understanding
security deﬁnitions. This separation of concerns suggests a new approach in teach-
ing where the high-level understanding of cryptography can be treated precisely,
without need for understanding cryptographic deﬁnitions (e.g. simulators), in a
16
     Note that abstract cryptography [18] is more general and can not be phrased in the
     UC-framework, as it not only considers a single (central) adversary but models more
     generally parties with conﬂicting goals.
54      U. Maurer

general self-contained course on information security, while security deﬁnitions
and proofs can be treated in a specialized course on cryptography.
   Many relevant topics could not be discussed in this paper and are deferred to
subsequent papers. Three of them are addressed below.
   First, symmetric encryption is the only cryptographic primitive that was
actually explained in this paper as a constructive step. Other cryptographic
primitives such as message authentication codes, public-key encryption, key-
agreement protocols, and digital signature schemes, can also be described as
constructive steps, in the spirit described in [21], leading to constructive secu-
rity deﬁnitions for these schemes.
   Second, the previous game-based security deﬁnitions can be explained in the
context of constructive cryptography, giving them a (constructive) semantics.
Usually one of the known game-based deﬁnitions, if lifted to a more abstract level
where one does not necessarily have to talk about asymptotics, polynomial-time,
etc., is equivalent to a given constructive security deﬁnition. For the case of sym-
metric encryption, the relation between constructive and game-based deﬁnitions
is investigated in [20].
   Third, we can now design a complete protocol constructing a secure com-
munication channel between two entities A and B from a secret key shared by
them and an insecure network (which is a resource involving many entities, in-
cluding A and B). In addition to the two constructive steps of applying message
authentication and encryption (see [22]), the roles of addresses (sender and re-
ceiver) and of sequence numbers and/or nonces must also be made explicit as
constructive steps. For a protocol designed in this manner, attacks (e.g. replay
attacks, reﬂection attacks, etc.) sometimes successful against conventionally de-
signed protocols, can be excluded by design and need therefore not even be
considered. In a certain sense, the constructive paradigm is type-safe, avoiding
unexpected eﬀects when diﬀerent protocol components are combined. Future
protocol suites for key management, secure communication, certiﬁcation, etc.,
can be designed (and hence be proven secure) in the constructive cryptography
paradigm.

Acknowledgements. Constructive cryptography was developed in parallel
with abstract cryptography [18]. The collaboration with Renato Renner was
essential. I have had numerous very helpful discussions and an on-going collab-
oration with Björn Tackmann who also provided continuous motivation. Many
current and former group members have provided useful feedback in the context
of the courses I taught at ETH, and with several colleagues I have had many
useful discussions. These people include Divesh Aggarwal, Kﬁr Barhum, David
Basin, Sandro Coretti, Grégory Demay, Martin Hirt, Dennis Hofheinz, Thomas
Holenstein, Christoph Lucas, Sebastian Mödersheim, Krzysztof Pietrzak, Bar-
tosz Przydatek, Dominik Raub, Pavel Raykov, Christoph Sprenger, Stefano Tes-
saro, Zuzana Trubini(-Beerliova), Luca Viganò, Stefan Wolf, and Vassilis Zikas.
      Constructive Cryptography – A New Paradigm for Security Deﬁnitions             55

References

 1. Backes, M., Hofheinz, D., Unruh, D.: CoSP: A general framework for computa-
    tional soundness proofs. In: ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
    Security, pp. 66–78 (2009)
 2. Backes, M., Pﬁtzmann, B., Waidner, M.: A general composition theorem for secure
    reactive systems. In: Naor, M. (ed.) TCC 2004. LNCS, vol. 2951, pp. 336–354.
    Springer, Heidelberg (2004)
 3. Bellare, M., Canetti, R., Krawczyk, H.: A modular approach to the design and
    analysis of authentication and key exchange protocols. In: Proc. 30th Annual Sym-
    posium on the Theory of Computing (STOC), pp. 419–428. ACM, New York (1998)
 4. Canetti, R.: Universally composable security: A new paradigm for cryptographic
    protocols. In: FOCS, pp. 136–145 (2001)
 5. Canetti, R.: Universally composable signature, certiﬁcation, and authentication. In:
    17th IEEE Computer Security Foundations Workshop (CSF 2004), p. 219 (2004)
 6. Canetti, R., Krawczyk, H.: Analysis of key-exchange protocols and their use for
    building secure channels. In: Pﬁtzmann, B. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2001. LNCS,
    vol. 2045, pp. 453–474. Springer, Heidelberg (2001)
 7. Canetti, R., Krawczyk, H.: Universally composable notions of key exchange and
    secure channels. In: Knudsen, L. (ed.) EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp.
    337–351. Springer, Heidelberg (2002)
 8. Cortier, V., Delaune, S.: Safely composing security protocols. Formal Methods in
    System Design 34(1), 1–36 (2009)
 9. Diﬃe, W., Hellman, M.E.: New directions in cryptography. IEEE Transactions on
    Information Theory 22, 644–654 (1976)
10. Goldwasser, S., Micali, S., Rackoﬀ, C.: The knowledge complexity of interactive
    proof systems. SIAM J. Comput. 18(1), 186–208 (1989)
11. Gross, T., Mödersheim, S.: Vertical protocol composition. In: 24th IEEE Computer
    Security Foundations Workshop (CSF 2011) (to appear, 2011)
12. Guttman, J.D., Thayer, F.J.: Protocol Independence through Disjoint Encryption.
    In: Computer Security Foundations Workshop, pp. 24–34 (2000)
13. Maurer, U.: Secret key agreement by public discussion from common information.
    IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 39(3), 733–742 (1993)
14. Maurer, U.: Indistinguishability of random systems. In: Knudsen, L.R. (ed.)
    EUROCRYPT 2002. LNCS, vol. 2332, pp. 110–132. Springer, Heidelberg (2002)
15. Maurer, U.: Abstraction in cryptography. In: Halevi, S. (ed.) CRYPTO 2009.
    LNCS, vol. 5677, p. 465. Springer, Heidelberg (2009)
16. Maurer, U.: Constructive cryptography - a primer. In: Sion, R. (ed.) FC 2010.
    LNCS, vol. 6052, p. 1. Springer, Heidelberg (2010)
17. Maurer, U., Pietrzak, K., Renner, R.: Indistinguishability ampliﬁcation. In:
    Menezes, A. (ed.) CRYPTO 2007. LNCS, vol. 4622, pp. 130–149. Springer, Heidel-
    berg (2007)
18. Maurer, U., Renner, R.: Abstract cryptography. In: The Second Symposium in
    Innovations in Computer Science, ICS 2011, pp. 1–21. Tsinghua University Press,
    Beijing (January 2011)
19. Maurer, U., Renner, R., Wolf, S.: Unbreakable keys from random noise. In: Tuyls,
    P., et al. (eds.) Security with Noisy Data, pp. 21–44. Springer, Heidelberg (2007)
20. Maurer, U., Rüedlinger, A., Tackmann, B.: Conﬁdentiality and integrity revisited
    (manuscript in preparation)
56      U. Maurer

21. Maurer, U., Schmid, P.E.: A calculus for security bootstrapping in distributed
    systems. Journal of Computer Security 4(1), 55–80 (1996); appeared also In: Goll-
    mann, D. (ed.) ESORICS 1994. LNCS, vol. 875, pp. 175–192. Springer, Heidelberg
    (1994)
22. Maurer, U., Tackmann, B.: On the soundness of authenticate-then-encrypt. In:
    ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 505–515 (2010)
23. Mödersheim, S., Viganò, L.: Secure pseudonymous channels. In: Backes, M., Ning,
    P. (eds.) ESORICS 2009. LNCS, vol. 5789, pp. 337–354. Springer, Heidelberg
    (2009)
24. Pﬁtzmann, B., Waidner, M.: Composition and integrity preservation of secure re-
    active systems. In: ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
    pp. 245–254 (2000)
25. Shoup, V.: On formal models for secure key exchange. IBM Research report, no.
    RZ 3120 (April 1999)
26. Sprenger, C., Basin, D.A.: Developing security protocols by reﬁnement. In: ACM
    Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 361–374 (2010)
